The Fed just has a lot less influence on
the direction of things than they've had
in the past.
>> We want the Fed to react before we see a
big problem.
>> Does feel as if the balance of risk is
pretty balanced at this point.
>> It's clearly long-term rates that drive
the bus here.
>> Even if they cut in September, it's then
not going to necessarily be a slam dunk
that there'll be a December cut. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloombeck
surveillance starts right now coming
into Monday. Thank you, Jay.
>> Downside risks to employment are rising.
The effects of tariffs on consumer
prices are now clearly visible. A
reasonable base case is that the effects
will be relatively short-lived. The
shifting balance of risks may warrant
adjusting our policy stance.
>> Fed share J. Pal helping to unleash a
major equity market rally. This week,
investors turning their attention to
earnings from tech giant Nvidia just
after the White House makes a move to
take a 10% stake in Intel. That stock
trading high this morning.
>> Semiconductors are clearly in focus this
week. Because Jonathan, once again,
whether or not it's Nvidia, whether or
not it's Intel, we've seen a more
interventionist approach from this White
House. The president within 15 days went
from urging the Intel CEO to resign,
then saying he came into the Oval Office
and he said, "You know what? Actually, I
want a stake in this company." The
signal Wall Street needs to take from
this White House, though, is that this
approach is not slowing down. The
president said himself, "I'll do more of
them."
>> There's more to come. Government
intervention can have unintended
consequences, and we should talk about
that. With regards to Intel, 30% of
revenue coming from China. I'm still
waiting for the Chinese response to the
fact that the government now has a stake
or will have a stake in this company.
>> Well, China basically might say, "Good.
You're doing what we've been doing for
years. You're taking an approach that
Beijing has been doing when they have
invested and taken an interventionist
approach from their national champions."
This is what is also going to be so
interesting, Jonathan. When Nvidia
reports this week, what is happening
with their Chinese business? Remember
when Beijing said actually please start
snubbing those chips and start going for
our national champions and the
information is reporting that Nvidia is
telling their component producers to
hold off and stop making them. Are the
H20s even viable anymore in in in
China?
>> Intel in the pre-market higher by 2.9%.
Bond yields just a little bit higher
after a big move last week. Let's talk
about fixed income higher by a single
basis point. The 2-year 370 tens at 427.
A major buy shift from Fed chair Jay
Powell over in Jackson Hole, Wyoming
after pledging to anchor inflation
expectations, pledging almost to put a
floor under the labor market.
>> It was almost like Governor Waller wrote
that speech that Chair Jay Powell
delivered on Friday. Jonathan, he opens
the door. The question of course
becomes, does he walk through it in
September when the Fed meets? I think
you still have to take into account that
on the sidelines, Susan Collins, Austin
Goulby, others were still talking about
the fact that they are concerned about
inflation. September 5th, we get another
read on the labor market and September
11th, next CPI report. Both of those
reports leading into the Fed meeting.
>> A week later, September 17th for the
Federal Reserve to get together. If you
are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Very close to all-time highs at
the close going into the weekend. This
morning, negative by 210 of 1%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Bob
Elliot of Unlimited Funds with stocks on
the brink of record highs. Frank Lee of
HSBC looking ahead to earnings from
Nvidia and Steve Rashuto of Mazou on why
a September rate cut may not be
justified. We begin this hour with stock
steady after chairp helped unleash a
powerful equity market rally. Bob Elliot
of Unlimited writing, "Fed chair JP Pal
clearly prioritize the labor market over
the inflation mandate, but if growth is
weak enough to inspire aggressive cuts,
it's far too weak for stocks at current
levels." Bob joins us now for more. Bob,
good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Let's just start with that speech. Have
we abandoned that 2% target?
>> Well, I think the rhetoric says that the
2% target's going to stick around, but
let's be honest, they've missed it for
52 months. they're likely to miss it for
another year given uh what Powell said
yesterday and the pressures coming from
tariffs. And so I mean if you fail at
your job for 60 months like it's not
particularly credible that they're
prioritizing that inflationary the
inflation mandate. It's clear what's
happened is we've had another reaction
function shift. I mean your head can
spin at the number of reaction function
shifts we've seen over the last couple
years and this one is back towards
concerns about the weakening labor
market. I think the issue uh and why we
might be seeing a little buyers regret
this morning is that if conditions are
weak enough for the Fed to start to cut
aggressively, they're far too weak for
what we're seeing in the stock market.
>> This word curious, let's use this word
curious that the Fed chair used on
Friday to describe the situation in the
labor market to describe his words on
inflation. A one-time shift in the price
level. Of course, one time does not mean
all at once. That line there from the
Fed chair, I think, sets us up to ignore
hot prints on inflation for months to
come and maybe longer than that. How
sensitive are we going to be to incoming
information over the next 6 months?
Well, I I think we're, you know, at a
broad level creating one of the greatest
macroeconomic experiments we've ever
had, you know, in in 150 years, which is
hiking tariffs to their highest level in
100 years in the largest economy in the
world. And so, there's a lot of
uncertainty about how that's going to
flow through, and we're just starting to
see the effects. And so any reasonable
analyst will say with there's not a lot
of confidence about exactly when we're
going to see the inflation peak or how
much is going to hit earnings on shore.
And so it's reasonable to say we're not
going to really understand exactly how
it's going to flow through. What's not
reasonable is to basically say forget
inflation. It's transitory. Dare I say
the word implied by what was said there.
>> He basically said it without saying it.
Correct.
>> I mean it it's it's about as transitory
an argument as he could have made there.
And that means basically no matter what
happens on the inflation side of the
mandate, it's just going to get ignored.
This is all about the labor market in
the next year.
>> When he's reacting to the labor market,
does it look political now given the
fact that as you and Jonathan are
talking about, this is widely different
than what he was talking about just four
weeks ago. It is certainly uh curious
that he said that the labor market was
strong and argued at length in the
presser about the tightness of the labor
market what four weeks ago and then here
we come and look at the speech last week
and it looks dovish concerned even about
what's going on in the labor market
under the hood it looks a little as
though this is a little bit of a
Frankenstein speech where his you know
his views are certainly included there
in terms of talking about the tightness
but then giving a nod to those folks who
are more concerned uh about the labor
market and frankly more dovish tilting
here.
>> So this was a collective speech you
think from input from other members.
>> It certainly looks uh divergent from
what was said uh a few weeks ago in the
presser. It also looks pretty divergent
from what uh was printed in the minutes.
And that's interesting because the
minutes were written after that labor
market data uh was out. And minutes are
often revised when there's incremental
important information that comes out.
And so that suggests that um the dovish
side of uh of the FOMC may have taken
control in terms of authoring this. Now
look, to be charitable, maybe what's
happening here is Chairman Powell is
trying to take a little heat off of the
FOMC, particularly given some of the
challenges to independence we've seen in
the last couple weeks. Uh I think the
problem with that is uh as we saw
through the course of the weekend, uh
just a little bit of dovish tilt is not
going to take the heat off this FOMC.
>> Should we talk about market
consequences? Equities off to the races,
rocketing higher on Friday. Bond yield
to lower across the curve, twos out to
30s. There are some people writing this
morning that maybe you might see an
inflection at the long end of the curve
that this kind of reaction function,
this setup into the rest of this year
could actually generate higher yields in
the same way they did 12 months ago.
What's your view on that?
>> I think it really comes down to whether
the monetary policy is uh responding to
the growth conditions. And so if we're
actually seeing a weakening of economic
conditions, actually bonds here look
like a good buy. I mean, look, yields,
whether you're looking at long-end real
yields or nominals, they're at cycle
highs at a time when we've seen a clear
slowing of the uh of the economy. And
so, you know, if you look at, for
instance, how hedge funds are positioned
right now, what you see is actually
bonds are a buy. A pretty non-conensus
view out there relative to what most
people on the street are saying.
>> How does that stack up with your call on
equities?
>> Well, I think it basically uh favors,
you know, bonds are basically at lows
and equities are at highs at a time when
growth is slowing. And typically when
you see that setup uh that's favorable
to bonds relative to stocks and the one
area that could come out of this which
is if the Fed does get very aggressively
let's say proactively easy you're going
to see that in the dollar we saw a lot
of you know pretty weak dollar response
uh on Friday and you know at a big
picture level the dollar's down somewhat
this year but DXY has traded down into
the 80s into the 70s and so we're a long
way away from a weak dollar environment.
Bob, what happens if they don't cut in
September?
>> Well, I think uh there's certainly going
to be a lot of political pressure uh
that's going to
>> But for equities,
>> I you know, equities are uh it really
comes down to the data. I think that's
the basic issue is if we see a couple if
we see a strong labor market print, then
I think equities are going to hold up
here and things are going to be fine.
But the real challenge, the real risk
for the equity market is we see
continued soft labor markets, elevated
inflation, which will almost certainly
come in the next CPI report and a Fed
that is a little hesitant. Now, it I
think it's going to be quite a pullback.
It's going to be hard to to see all that
data and not cut given what was
indicated uh on Friday. But, you know,
that that's the risk is the the bigger
risk for equities is basically that you
have weakening growth and you don't get
that easing that's necessary.
>> We've all used that word curious. now a
few times already this morning when he
described the curious labor market. It's
curious that he's putting more emphasis
on the demand side of the story and
perhaps less on the supply side of the
story. Are you doing the same thing?
>> Well, I think when you when you think
about what's going to drive stocks,
stocks don't care about the tightness of
the labor market. They care about
growth. And to the extent that growth is
slowing because there's a supply
constraint in labor and that's reducing
incomes in aggregate in the economy,
that's weak for growth and should be
weak for stocks. And we've already seen,
you know, GDP final sales, nominal final
sales was, you know, 2 or 3% in the last
quarter. That's very weak relative to
the potential the the typical potential
of the economy. And so, um, if you're if
you're focused on monetary policy,
typically the tightness matters, but if
you're focused on stocks and bonds, it's
going to come down to what's happening
with growth. And so, that curiosity
isn't really all that relevant to what
what's going to transpire for stock and
bond pricing.
>> Well, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by, sir. Thank you
very much Bob Elliot there of unlimited
funds finally balanced on the Federal
Reserve going through the rest of this
year but September it looks like the Fed
chair opened the door wide open for rate
cuts
>> and what happens if he doesn't given the
fact that he did open that door pretty
much everyone's expecting him to walk
through it. I love what Bob had to say
though potentially this is a collective
speech input from other members and
maybe Jonathan that is the Fed chair
trying to keep the heat off the FOMC
right now but not sure that's going to
work with President Donald Trump.
>> That's the latest on the Federal
Reserve. Let's get you the latest
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. ECB President Christine Lagard
warning against political interference
in central banking. Lagard saying if
monetary policy independence is
undermined, quote, it becomes
dysfunctional and starts doing things
that it shouldn't do. Elsewhere, the
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney
visited Kev on Ukraine's independence
day pledging support. Speaking alongside
President Zilinski, Carney said peace
with Russia must come through strength
and did not rule out providing Canadian
peacekeepers. And finally, Kurig Dr.
Pepper agreeing to buy Dutch coffee and
tea company JDEP for $18 billion. Once
the deal is completed, Kurig plans to
split the coffee business from other
beverage operations. Her stock is
negative by 3.4%.
Up next on the program, piling the
pressure on the Fed.
>> You going to fire Lisa Cook, the Fed
governor, over her if she doesn't
resign. Yeah, she's she what she did was
bad. So, I'll fire her if she doesn't
resign.
>> That conversation up next with George
Pollock of Signnum live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Stopped a 5-day slide in Friday's
session. Equities the biggest one day
gain since May. Pulling back this Monday
morning by about a quarter of 1% on the
S&P. No drama here on the NASDAQ 100
down by about a third. If you check out
the bond market, 2-year, 10-year, and
30-year bond yields this morning. higher
across the curve after a big rally in
Friday's session. We unwind some of
that. Check out the very long end of the
curve. Yields higher on a 30-year this
morning by about three or four basis
points. The 30-year 491,
that's the one to watch through the next
few weeks. The front end's going to be
super anchored by whatever the Fed share
sets us up for relative to the data over
the next few weeks. Of course, Amory
went through the data. Payrolls the
first week of September, CPI the week
after that. Do we see a repeat of last
year where they cut rates at the front
end and rates at the long end continue
to climb by about 100 basis points?
That's the bond market set up this
morning under Savannah this morning
piling the pressure on the Federal
Reserve.
>> President Trump, you going to fire Lisa
Cook, the Fed governor, over her
>> if she doesn't resign. Yeah, she's she
what she did was bad. So I'll fire her
if she doesn't resign.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump threatening to
fire Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Kirk
if she doesn't resign over mortgage
fraud allegations. Governor Kirk has not
been formally charged with any crimes.
Joining us now from Washington DC is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, good
morning.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
this really marks the latest escalation
by the White House. And I think it's
fair to say that it was a little
surprising that we didn't hear from
President Trump comment directly on the
message from Fed Chair Jerome Powell on
Friday, but instead escalated this
threat to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook if
she does not resign over allegations of
mortgage occupancy fraud. And we did
have the FHFA director, Bill Py, on
Bloomberg television last week who told
us that this is part of a broader
crackdown when it comes to the issue of
mortgage fraud. But it's of course
raising big questions here in
Washington. One over the motivation, but
also over any potential legal
ramifications because there is a very
high legal bar to remove a Fed official.
And we actually saw that protection
bolstered by the Supreme Court earlier
this year. Now, you mentioned it, but it
bears repeating. There have been no
formal charges brought against Cook and
she herself responded last week saying
that she will not be bullied into
leaving her position and that she is
gathering the accurate information to
answer any sort of legitimate questions.
But I don't need to tell you, John, that
a potential opening would pave the way
for four out of seven of the Fed board
seats to be filled by Trump appointees,
but that doesn't necessarily mean that
President Trump would even get his way
when it comes to monetary policy. And we
really did hear that sentiment echoed by
current and former Fed officials alike.
John, I uh caught up with former Kansas
City Fed President uh Esther George last
week who said that as more pressure
comes to bear, that does cloud the
public's view, but that ultimately
that's not going to cloud the view of
the decision makers at the table.
>> Tyler, what's been the reaction in
Washington to the president once again
going after a member of the Fed?
Well, it depends who you ask, Anmarie.
Of course, Republicans have really stood
by President Trump's efforts here,
saying that he has his fair right to
voice his opinion when it comes to the
future of monetary policy and that he's
trying to do what's best in his view
when it comes to the economy. But we do
know that many of those Senate
Republicans on the banking committee,
for example, have voiced concerns that
ultimately at the end of the day, they
do want to see a central bank that is
independent and able to make its own
decision. So, Republicans for the most
part in Washington have really been
walking that tight rope so that they can
be in favor of the president's view, but
that they're still making sure that the
Fed is data dependent.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. More from Tyler in the next
hour. George Pollock of Signnum writing
the following. Cook is likely not
inclined to resign as a term goes until
2038 and would rather have the legal
fight determine what for cause actually
is. George joins us now for more.
George, why is this different to what we
saw play out with the former Dallas Fed
president Robert Kaplan when he decided
this has became a distraction over his
financial disclosures and he resigned as
did Eric Rosenrren for different late
different reasons later on. George, I
just wonder why we see this as slightly
different.
So at Signum, we see this as slightly
different because Governor Cook would
understand that if she were to resign
and take the hit of resignation, that
would give the president an opening to a
majority on the Fed Board of Governors.
And for for the Governor Cook, she views
this as completely false and not a
accurate allegation. from Bill Palty
basically misunderstanding what occurred
and she wants the push back and with her
term going through the 2030s she doesn't
want to give up that term potentially
impact her her party potentially impact
the Fed's independence and give the
president well not a clear ability to
impact the FOMC at least take a step
forward towards massively changing the
Fed its independence and how the FOMC
votes
>> George at Singum do you view this as an
issue of Fed independence or Is there
actual accountability that needs to be
brought to the Fed? Has there been poor
over oversight at the Fed?
>> I think that's a really fair question.
We've seen the nominee for Kougl's
remaining term, Steven Moran, lay out
that point. I think one big issue that a
lot of people will have with his action
against Cook is it's the Trump
administration making this argument. And
while if the allegations are proven, we
understand why the president would feel
inclined to fire her, it's difficult for
a lot of people from the policy and
politics side to understand the Trump
administration claiming some sense of
propriety or concern about
the morals and ethics of government
officials while continuing to take
certain actions that have raised
questions.
>> George, where is this fight going next?
What happens next? This end up just in
courts?
>> Well, that's the issue. So, we've never
actually had a Fed governor fired for
cause. So, while we have the standard
laid out that includes malfeasants or
inability or incompetence, the test,
it's never been tested. And that's kind
of why we thinks we think the president
will go forward with the firing of Lisa
Cook because either way, either the
court backs her or it backs the
president, but at the very least, he
will be given a roadmap on which to
operate and which to understand where
the fur cause protections apply. George,
I just want to push the legal
proceedings to one side because they
haven't officially started just yet. And
as we've said repeatedly on this
program, and I think you and I have
talked about it, too, it's difficult to
engage with a legal process that hasn't
even started just yet. But what's
curious to me is some of the language
that people are using when they talk
about this story. They talk about things
about they don't want the president to
make a decision to replace Governor Lisa
Cook with someone that he wants and that
somehow Lisa Cook herself would be
concerned about that. George, as we
engage in that conversation, aren't we
just accepting that some of these
individuals are politically biased
themselves?
>> I think what we're accepting is kind of
like a parallel to the Supreme Court
where they preserve their independence,
where they maintain their independence,
but at the same time, many people in
American politics and policy have
interpreted it widely as they wear the
jerseys of their team be Republican or
Democratic. And I think as we've seen
politics and policies impact
theoretically independent institutions
like the Supreme Court and now under
President Trump, like the Fed, I think
we just we're just seeing more of a
public a public willingness to discuss
the fact that there are politics that
are considered in the Fed and that the
Fed doesn't ignore politics. And I know
Dr. Sarah Binder at Brookings has laid
this out that the Fed isn't so much an
independent institution, but it's more
so an interdependent institution and it
depends on protection from institutions
like Congress. So, we've kind of seen
that a transition towards that becoming
the more dominant theory.
>> When it comes to what's next in terms of
the Senate getting back in session in
September, do you think we're going to
see Steve Meyer get a vote before the
next Fed meeting?
>> We do. at at Signnum, we actually think
he's going to get a vote before the next
Fed meeting, even though that does
require the Senate to act quickly, which
is not typically inclined to do. The
parallel I have is from the Supreme
Court nomination after Ruth Bader
Ginsburg uh died where they were able to
confirm Barrett in 30 days and 30
calendar days and that was for the
Supreme Court. Mir Mirin has already
been confirmed for a Senate position for
Senate confirmable position. He's
already served in an economic capacity
and it's for a short-term appointment.
It's only for four months. Neither the
president nor the Senate Republicans
will want to have him miss any FOMC
meeting that he can sit on. And it's our
belief that the president is going to
make this into a litmus test. And with
chairman Tim Scott generally inclined to
go along with the president, we think
that making it a litmus test will lead
to success and will lead him to sit on
the FRMC come the middle of September.
George, do you have any thinking now?
Has it changed at all about who do you
think Trump's going to pick to be the
next Fed chair?
>> So, in our conversations, we've always
come around, you know, the the two
Kevin. We've seen the conversations
about David Malpass. We've seen the
reports about a more expanded list of
targets from people who are not so much
Fed experience, but we still think in
the end while those names are out there
and they're out there for positive
reasons and they could bring the
independent and disruptive thinking the
president seems to want to bring to the
Fed, we still think it's more along the
lines of people like the two Kevin more
so than out of the out of the box names
that we've seen discussed in the past
couple weeks.
>> George, appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Enjoyed the analysis. George
Pollock of Signnum on the Federal
Reserve. If this was about sports and if
this was about performance alone, like
who's in the best form right now? The
individual in the best form on the FOMC
right now is Governor Waller. And you
nailed it at the top of the program. The
very fact that the chairman's come out a
number of months after Governor Waller
has and basically echoed everything that
Governor Wallace has been saying that
predated non-farm payrolls after that
news conference with Chairman Pal. That
tells you the guy who's best positioned
to run this central bank at the moment
is an individual already on it. It's
Governor Waller.
>> Absolutely. And you could take Bob
Elliot's point of view saying maybe
Powell was leaning on to some of the
input from the doves in the committee,
those two denters, including Governor
Waller at the last Fed meeting. But
really, it was almost like Governor
Waller wrote that speech. all of these
talking points that he has been making
for months, Powell has finally come out
and said it, which is why many people
think he's really the guy that at the
end of the day the president is going to
tap. But what's interesting there,
George said, he goes back to basically
the originals, the OGs we've been
talking about for months, no one really
is talking about this 11 person list
that the Treasury Secretary's put out.
Even the president himself, Trump said,
it's really just two or three people and
I'm going to decide on those.
>> Equities, in a moment, if you're just
joining us, welcome to the program. We
are negative. We are just off alltime
highs. as we're down about a quarter of
1% on the S&P 500. Big week coming up
for earnings. In just a moment, we'll
catch up with Frank Lee of HSBC, raising
its price target on Nvidia going into
earnings this week. Plus, we'll catch up
with Danny Ber. We'll get you some
morning movers with Curry Dr. Pepper
sliding in the pre-market. That stock is
down 3.4%.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Equities negative by 0.3%
on the S&P 500. Pulling back from the
best day since May on Friday and the
gains we added to the S&P 500. Very,
very close to all-time highs on the S&P
going into the weekend. Coming out the
other side, just a little bit of
weakness. Check out the bond market.
Just want to focus on the difference
between twos and 30s. The distance
between the two, the longest, the widest
going back to 2022 at Friday's session.
But that gap is opening up again. We're
up by four basis points this morning on
30s, 49121. Just want to know that on
the open on Friday, we opened up at
49193. So that predates chairman pal
that 49193 and we're basically back to
those levels. And it's this discussion
about what happens at the long end that
I think we're all gripped on in fixed
income at the moment. Do we see a repeat
of what we saw last year? And this could
be a massive problem for the Federal
Reserve and a massive problem for the
White House, too. This White House wants
lower rates, but what they ultimately
want is lower borrowing costs and lower
mortgage rates. And at the moment,
there's going to be a big question about
whether they get that or not.
>> This is the biggest conundrum facing
them right now. They want the Fed to
cut. And part of the reasoning is they
say American families, businesses, they
want lower rates. They want to get on
the mortgages. They want to get on the
housing ladder. But what did we see a
year ago? The Fed cut rates and
mortgages actually went up. And this is
an issue is what if this happens yet
again? This doesn't solve the problem
that they're looking for.
>> Just seeing bond yields bleed a little
bit higher at the longer end of the
curve. Want to finish on foreign
exchange. Check out Euro dollar. And
just check out the difference between
the two central banks right now. The ECB
side versus the Federal Reserve on
Friday. Chairman Pal leaving the door
wide open to reduce interest rates on
September 17th. The Bundes Bank
president sitting down with Lisa and TK
basically saying the bar for another
rate cut from this ECB still super high.
Some euro strength on Friday. Just a
touch of weakness this morning. Down by
about a third of 1% still around 11786.
As we count you down to the opening bow,
that's the price action. Let's get you
some single names, some morning movers.
Let's cross over to Danny Burger for
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Merger Monday in full swing.
Dr. Cur Dr. Pepper will be buying the
Amsterdam listed JDE Pets. Usually the
acquire falls when this happens. So not
unusual to see shares down about 3.4%.
After it's done, Kurig Dr. Pepper will
split its coffee and its beverage
business into two separate listed
entities 7 years after they merge. All
of this really just underscoring the
difficult environment for beverage
companies with changing consumer
preferences and some differences in
commodity prices. Next, some Washington
action affecting single names this
morning after the bell. Yesterday we
learned that the US government would
indeed be buying a 9.9%
stake in Intel for $ 8.9 billion. That
funding would be coming from the chips
act. Those shares up 2.4%. The
government won't have any voting rights
or any other governance rights, but
Bernstein analysts underscoring that
sure Intel needs money, but more than
that, it needs customers. Now, the last
thing moving on Washington DC action.
Wayfair this morning, one of the poorest
performers in the pre-market of a
certain size, down 5%. Trump again after
the bell yesterday announcing that the
US would be launching an investigation
into furniture being imported into the
US. He said after that investigation
about 50 days they would look at
sectoral tariffs. So again your fair
shares and some of the other furniture
makers falling in the pre-market trade.
John
>> Danny thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the next hour on our
radar this morning. One of our top
stories worldwide. Fed J Pal leaving the
door wide open for a rate cut at the
central bank September meeting. Pal
highlighting risk to employment and
impacts of tariffs on inflation that
could warrant adjusting policy.
Elsewhere, Vice President JD Vance
expressing confidence the US can broker
a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine.
Vance saying, "We've seen significant
concessions from both sides in the last
two weeks."
>> I think everyone knows what the
concessions are on Ukraine's side. The
interesting part was really what JD
Vans, the vice president, was talking
about concessions on the Russian side.
He said they conceded in the recognition
that Ukraine will have to have
territorial integrity after the war,
that they're not going to be able to
install a puppet regime in Kev. And then
of course what they view as a major
concession for Moscow was the fact that
there will be this security guarantee.
You had Mark Ruta go to Keev on Friday.
They are trying to work out what a
security guarantee could look like. This
asurances for Ukraine. The issue is
Jonathan, how many times have we been
here with this country? Minsk, there was
a memorandum in the '9s because of this.
And yet again, we still had an invasion.
And this is what is going to make it so
complicated. But this administration
still tries to narrow that gap.
>> In the '90s, it was Budapest, right?
>> Yes.
>> Let's just build on that a little bit
because I imagine that's going to make
Ukraine very nervous. And I'm not sure
how many people are aware of what was
actually agreed in the '90s and how
eerily similar some of the language
being used now is of that time.
>> Well, this is the issue. They gave up
their nuclear weapons to and the
basically it was the United States said
we will come support you. There will be
the security guarantee. and to give up
their nuclear weapons. They were
supposed to have already territorial
integrity. That has not been the case.
And that has not been the case for
years. I know we've been following this
more for more than 3 years, but
obviously Crimea was a decade ago. We
are looking at Putin continuing to
infringe on their territory, which is
why this is so complicated for the
Ukrainians to really digest and swallow.
>> That's the latest on Russia. Ukraine
wanted to turn to the chip sector.
President Donald Trump sealing a deal
with Intel to give the government a 10%
stake in the chipmaker. Intel saying the
government will be a passive owner with
no board seat or other governance or
information rights. Now, is there
anything passive about this White House?
This White House is incredibly active.
>> They are incredibly active. This is just
another gambit when it comes to an
interventionist approach when it comes
to corporate America. Scott Lindum of
Kato Institute comes on this program a
lot. He wrote something an opinion piece
in the Washington Post yesterday and he
said the most immediate risk that
Intel's decision will increasingly be
driven by political rather than
commercial considerations. When the US
government is its larger shareholder,
they're going to face constant pressure
to align corporate decisions with the
goals of whatever political party is in
power. And this is why so many people
are pushing back and concerned not just
with this deal, but the fact the
president United States said more to
come.
>> What a move in this sector. Intel higher
by more than 2%. Let's stick with tech.
Investors looking ahead to Nvidia
earnings on Wednesday, hoping the
results will ease fears of a bubble.
Bloomberg's Tom McKenzie joins us now
from London with more. Good morning,
Tom. What are we looking for later this
week?
>> Yeah, earnings from Nvidia, of course,
dropping late on Wednesday, as you say.
Expectations from analysts looking at
this stock. They expect to see earnings
increasing about 48%
yearonear from the previous quarter. of
course on earnings uh on revenues I
should say of around uh 46 billion US
for the quarter that would be a 54%
increase the question of course for many
watching this stock is what executives
of course Jennifer Kang and the team say
about the China piece of this story the
earnings from the big tech companies the
mega cap tech companies suggest the
spend continues as you as you know John
so it's less about that part of it
really and it's more about what they
have to say in terms of how they
adjusting to the China story, whether or
not they are in fact designing a new
chip for the Chinese market and if
they're any closer to getting that
signed off by the Trump administration
and if indeed they think China even
wants that chip at this point. Worth
remembering as well as we build up for
the results in terms of the last two
years. There's been just one miss in
terms of the last eight quarters out
invidia that was the second quarter
2025. So in terms second quarter in fact
I said 2022 in terms of the history of
this stock at seven times out of the
last eight quarters you've had a beat
just one miss expectations of course
will be high for this stock. It's
trading not near its 5-year multiples
but it's around 34 times forward PE.
It's not looking too rich for some but
will the estimates will the expectations
be a little bit too stretched? I think
the China story is going to be key.
>> Investors have been spoiled that's for
sure Tom. Thank you sir. Tom McKenzie
out of London this morning. Let's build
on some of this. Frank Lee of HSBC
maintaining a hold rating on shares of
Nvidia raising the price target to 200
ahead of earnings. Frank joins us now
for more. Frank, good morning sir. Let's
just talk about what you're bullish on
going into the print. What are you
hopeful about?
>> Yeah, so I think going into the print um
the fundamentals, the long-term story is
still very solid. Uh I think the capex
spend as your previous guys just alluded
to still very very strong. Um but I
agree in terms of I think you know this
week's earnings a lot's going to be on
whether they can actually surprise the
market especially the China piece. I
think that has um you know there's a lot
of uncertainty in China. Uh I I think
you know so far what we've seen is you
know a very much a US focused response
is they can't go into China now they got
the license of H20 to come in. But I
think what we've seen in the last couple
of weeks is that the China government
now is actually reassessing whether or
not the putting pressure on the Chinese
customers perhaps hold off on on buying
the Nvidia chips. So I think a big part
of the guide for this week is going to
be on, you know, how much of that guide
will include a China piece and how much
will not include a China piece.
>> Well, following what Beijing is telling
its firms, the information reported that
Nvidia is asking its component suppliers
to halt production related to the H20.
So Frank, does that just say to you that
basically the H20 is done when it comes
to its shipments to China?
>> That's a good question. I think you know
it's it's and certainly in the last week
or two we started to see the supply
chain talk about you know the shipments
are being halted on H20. I think what's
difficult to assess though is is this
more of a temporary or is is there
something longer term? I mean it could
be part of you know a strategy behind
the overall trade deal which hasn't been
finalized. We do know that there is a
B30 chip that a blackwell chip that
Nvidia is potentially looking to uh
reintroduce to the China market but that
again will also need US government
approval as well. So I think you know
net there's a lot of uncertainties uh
for this earnings especially on the
China side. Um I I I don't think we have
a clear enough assessment to to make a
bet of whether H20 is dead altogether
but certainly in the near term there's
going to be some volatility and and
there is this is I think a surprise to
the overall market. What about on the US
government interventionist side? We of
course know that the president struck a
deal with AMD and Nvidia that any of
these licenses that they get to sell
these chips to China means they're going
to have to give 15% of profit back to
the US government.
>> Yeah. So again, that's also pretty
unprecedented to see this. Um so I think
we don't know if that response perhaps
is another trigger for the China
government to re reassess you know the
uh in terms of pressure on their own
suppliers their own customers to to
perhaps hold off. So I think that's one
of the difficulties around the Nvidia
narrative is that the China piece has
really dominated headlines but it's also
very difficult to actually predict
what's going to happen. So uh we do
think that if you take a longerterm
narrative, you know, the CSP invest the
capex spend into 2026 is probably going
to be much more important for Nvidia
longer term. Um but we can't escape, I
think, the the near-term narrative
around China.
>> Frank, can we just introduce the Intel
story into this conversation as well? I
just wonder how your thoughts are
developing at the moment on this matter
as they look to build out foundry
capacity domestically in line with the
objectives of the White House. How far
along are we going to be a year from
now, two years from now, three years
from now before the White House turns
around and says, "Nvidia, you've got to
use it."
>> Yeah. So, I I think look, the market's
obviously reacting very positively to
this news of the US government directly
invested in Intel. Uh it is a confidence
booster, but ultimately I think, you
know, Intel itself has to execute on its
foundry business, which it so far has
not. So I think that's going to be the
challenge is that you you can have
government pressure uh to to you to to
basically use Intel but Intel needs to
deliver first on its own execution to
prove to the uh to its customers that
they can produce the chips in its own
fabs and so far they haven't really done
that yet. So I think this is something
we need to watch very carefully uh over
the next couple of quarters to see what
that execution is about brought.
>> In the meantime Frank just how at risk
is their revenue in China? What are the
Chinese thinking about what's happening
stay side
>> for I think for Intel it's you know they
they do have some exposure um but that's
not where the contention is. Intel
doesn't really have very much uh they
don't they're not very strong in the AI
space especially when it comes to these
uh you know these GPUs. So I think the
majority of Intel's business today are
based on traditional CPUs that go into
PCs and traditional servers. So I think
that's less of a concern right now. Um,
so I think for Intel its biggest problem
is they need to get back on its own
execution.
>> Frank, do you think the Chinese
government or the authorities though
will be comfortable with the fact that
the US has taken a stake in Intel?
>> I think it's something that uh, you
know, I think if you look at where
Intel's strategies for US market, I I
don't think there's very much a Chinese
government can respond to it. I think
you know, this is something that if you
think about the majority of the foundry
business today though is still dominated
by TSMC. So Intel's presence in Foundry
is still very small today. So I don't
think it it impacts existing businesses,
but yes, there is going to be a
potential perception issue, but as far
as day-to-day, I don't think there's a
big impact right now.
>> That's one to watch. Frank, appreciate
your time, sir. Thank you. Looking ahead
to earnings from Nvidia, Frank Leer of
HSBC, and how contentious the future
might be for this sector.
>> Absolutely. Wall Street Journal
editorial board was pretty scathing on
the US government in terms of this and
they talked about the government's
support will ease the imperative of
Intel become more competitive and
they're saying that basically this is
one of the reasons why China's
state-owned semiconductor manufacturing
international corporation has struggled
and they're saying in the name of
competing with China the US is imitating
its model of state-run business. Quote
Washington is becoming Chinatown.
>> Intel higher in the pre-market. Equities
a little bit softer. We're down by a
quarter of 1% on the S&P 500. That's the
price action. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. President Donald Trump
saying the US is conducting a quote
major tariff investigation on furniture
coming into the United States. Trump
says the investigation will end in 50
days and imported furniture will be
taxed at a rate that is yet to be
determined. Elsewhere, SpaceX postponing
the test flight of its massive Starship
rocket just before liftoff due to a
ground systems issue yesterday. The
delay follows a series of setbacks,
including two flights that blew up
within minutes and another that exploded
on the test stand. And finally, after
163 events and zero wins, British golfer
Tommy Fleetwood got his first PGA Tour
victory at the FedEx Cup. He tapped in a
part for par on the 18th hole to win the
championship at 18 under. Fleewood
taking home a $10 million
prize. And it's not even about the
money. How much we can learn from this
guy? the classiest individual in any
sport anywhere. The way this guy dealt
with his losses repeatedly over the last
several months has been remarkable. Even
earlier on this weekend when on the 15th
hole he put the ball into the water, he
was still fist bumping a fence. He has
dealt with this all class for months and
months and months. And to be honest with
you, I could not be happier for the man.
Tommy, congratulations, buddy.
Absolutely fantastic. Up next on the
program, Chairman Pal preparing to make
a move.
>> With policy in restrictive territory,
the baseline outlook and the shifting
balance of risks may warrant adjusting
our policy stance.
>> That conversation up next with Steve
Rashuto of Missou live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
snapped a 5day slide in Friday's session
this morning. Pulling back just a little
bit. We're negative by a third of 1% on
the S&P. Call it a quarter. Down by.3 on
the Nasdaq 100 and Savanas this morning.
chairpow preparing to make a move.
>> The stability of the unemployment rate
and other labor market measures allows
us to proceed carefully as we consider
changes to our policy stance.
Nonetheless, with policy in restrictive
territory, the baseline outlook and the
shifting balance of risks may warrant
adjusting our policy stance.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Federal Reserve Chair J Pal leaving the
door wide open for a rate cut next
month. Steve Rashuta of Missou isn't
convinced it's needed, writing the
following. Should the Fed East policy,
as the markets expect, analysis suggests
the primary risk to the economy is a
backup in long-term interest rates.
Steve joins us now for more. Steve, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Just tell us what do you think is
brewing here.
>> Well, I think there's a bit of uh
political pressure building. I think
there's a bit of dovishness within this
committee that has been um brewing over
years. And I think when you combine it
with a misperception as to how
restrictive monetary policy is, you wind
up in a situation where you get a
chairman making a statement like this,
leaving a door open to a rate cut when
he himself in his own balance of risks
is completely balanced. The risk to the
upside on inflation, the risk to
inflation is to the upside. The risk to
employment is to the downside. Well,
okay, what are you supposed to do? Well,
the answer is if I think it's
restrictive, maybe I can cut rates. If I
don't think it's restrictive, then I
should be doing nothing. How do we
define restrictive? That becomes the
problem.
>> The thinking at the moment appears to be
that yes, we're facing upside risk to
inflation and downside risk to
employment, but the downside risk to
employment are more important because
the upside risk to inflation won't be as
pervasive and we won't see the second
round effects because of the downside
risk to employment. How do you think
about that issue?
>> Um, you have to show me that's the case.
Um, historically, yes, there are
important transitions that take place in
terms of the labor market that happen
more quickly than on the inflation side
of the equation. Don't argue with that.
Is this one of those conditions? The
answer is no. Uh, you have an economy
that is fundamentally healthy. You've
got an economy that accelerated or
rebounded right now very very sharply
after the second quarter GDP. You've got
an economy that's showing you have
healthy consumer demand. you have an
economy that is going to be above trend
economic growth um in the uh in the
current quarter against the backdrop of
a consensus forecast of 0.9% growth. And
so therefore there's a disconnect
between the reality and the perceptions
and I think that's part of the problem.
The other thing I think when you're
looking at the coverage of this
everyone's focused in on the opening up
the door to a rate cut. The chairman
said a couple of things. One was that
basically that the he didn't think
policy was that restrictive. Yet the
market has five rate cuts priced in.
That's number one. Number two, if you
look at the framework changes,
everything they did in 2020, which was
adopting a Keynesian style of monetary
policy is gone and they've readopted a
tailor rule approach to monetary policy,
which is a symmetric monetary policy
guide frame. And when you look at the
tailor rule type models, monetary policy
is not restrictive.
>> So you you mentioned though at the start
because there's one other dimension
happening here. You said it is a little
political. Do you think his speech
Friday was political?
>> Well, I think they may get into a
situation where the chairman said,
"Okay, I'm going to open the door to it.
Let's see what the committee does
because there seems to be this
perception inside the White House and
inside the Treasury that the chairman
can determine where monetary policy
goes. So, if the chairman opens the door
to a rate cut and the committee votes
and doesn't vote for a rate cut, then
guess what? It's not just one vote.
>> Bob Elliot was saying that he
potentially was doing this to protect
the Fed as an institution, but it sounds
like what you're saying, he's protecting
himself.
>> Well, I I again, protecting the Fed as
an institution. Yes, the institution
seems to be under attack, but it's
always historically been under attack.
We went through a very very calm period
um you know where we did not attack the
Fed from basically Paul Vulkar on. We're
now back in the more political
environment of these things and we've
historically face these dilemmas. I
think the real real issue for the Fed in
here is not just maintaining its
independence but maintaining its
credibility. Okay. What is your
framework? Is your framework a
symmetrical monetary policy? Okay. If
it's a symmetrical monetary policy, then
live up to the symmetrical monetary
policy. If it is still a policy skewed
towards a labor market issues, i.e. it
is the more equal of two equal framework
or guidelines, then be clear about that.
Um, and this I think opens up the bit of
the dilemma for what we're dealing with
today.
>> And do you think we could see a repeat
of last year? They drop rates at the
front end and we start seeing problems
at the long end.
>> I think that's really the underlying
risk that they face. Now again, could
that be then a message to um people on
Capitol Hill that believe well if you
lower short-term interest rates,
long-term interest rates automatically
come down? The answer is yes. That may
be, you know, what has to happen to get
it done. Is 25 basis points going to
matter one way or the other? No. Will
125 basis points matter? Yes. And that's
really really the difference here. I
don't really care if they cut rates 25
basis points in September. I care about
what they do with the dots. Do they now
look at their different framework and
say, "Okay, we've backed to the pre2020
framework." Well, what should the dots
then be going forward? Should the dots
still be for the number of rate cuts we
envision against an environment where we
have an economy that's going to continue
to grow and we have inflation in our
forecast that's 100 basis points above
our target.
>> Steve, this is really important. What I
hear from your analysis is a clear
distinction between whatever they do on
September and then the rest and the rest
is far more important. Do you see scope
then for a hawkish surprise on a 17th?
>> Well, the problem is the dots because
the dots aren't set as part of policy.
They go into the meeting having
delivered their dots and their SCP and
therefore it's just a calculation. So,
and unfortunately the market only pays
attention to the dots. It is the
intellectual gravity. Well, okay. Once
you put that dot out there, all thought
process in the market goes to explaining
that dot and forecasting what's going to
get that dot to happen. Nobody thinks of
anything else outside of how does that
dot get get validated and that's where
the market is. So, as long as those dots
run the risk of being there, I think you
might wind up with a more a greater
divergence in the dots in September and
that may be the thing that matters.
>> Steve, it's good to see you as always.
No doubt we'll see you before then.
Anyway, Steve Rashida of Missouo.
September 17th, that decision less than
a month away. This is still a divided
Federal Reserve and you've heard that
from Steve just then, you've heard it
from others, too.
>> Divided Federal Reserve. A lot of
questions whether Steve Meyn will be
there at the next Fed meeting. Of
course, can he get Senate confirmed in
time? What Steve had to say though was
interesting. The chairman is opening up
the door. Almost a reminder to this
administration. The chairman said he's
willing to cut rates. Reminder to them
that this is a deliberative body in
order for them to walk through that door
and deliver that rate cut. We've got a
lot to get through over the next few
weeks. Nvidia reporting later this week.
Then on to next week, we've got a
payroll report just around the corner.
Then it's CPI. Then after that, that
Federal Reserve decision. Coming up
next, Dan Skellyy of Morgan Stanley.
Plus, Henry Trades of Vader Partners,
the former Kansas City Fed President
Thomas Honik and Robert Tip of Pym Fixed
Income from New York City. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. Up next.
[Music]
This is an environment that is very
volatile.
>> It does seem that stocks are expensive
relative to what I call fundamentals.
>> Stocks have done so much better than
bonds over the past several years and
that gap's going to close. The market is
overly sanguin about where this neutral
rate is going to settle.
>> The market is decided that there's
almost certainly going to be a rate cut.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anmarie Hordern.
>> 3-week winning streak on the S&P 500.
Believe it or not, the longest weekly
winning streak of the year so far. It's
been choppy, hasn't it? Back and forth,
back and forth, snapping a 5-day slide
in Friday's session on the S&P 500. Your
scores look like this this morning.
We're down by 0.3% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ 100, we're down by 0.4. In the
bond market, switch the board. 2-year,
10 year, 30-year. My focus on the long
end of the curve. The chairman's
anchored the front end. The two years at
371. What happens at the longer end of
the curve? Steeper this morning at four
basis points. 49182.
As we work our way through the week,
it's all about the earnings from Nvidia.
Then later on in the week, closing out
the week on Friday. Core PCE setting the
stage for looking ahead to the data in
September. And that's what Steve Rashido
was talking about, the fact that the
data could surprise potentially and mean
the Fed needs to walk itself back. I
found what Steve was talking about so
interesting when it comes to chairman
Powell cuz Bob Elliot was talking about
the fact that maybe this speech did have
a hint of politics to basically get some
heat off the FOMC, get some heat off the
Fed from this White House. But what you
heard from Steve was almost get some
heat off the Fed chair only himself.
He's the one that's open to potentially
a rate cut right now. It's a
deliberative body. Does everyone else
line up with him in September?
>> Things are still super finely balanced
here. A lot of people believe the
chairman has solidified that rate cut in
September, but they've got to put out
some projections. And this is what Steve
Rashido was getting into. This is a
market looking for more than just 25.
It's looking for a hundred more than
that. Is this Federal Reserve going to
reinforce that in forecast in a few
weeks time?
>> And how much is the market obviously
what he said is going to pay attention
to those dots? What's so interesting is
the Powell's talking about that the
goals of their dual mandate are
intention right now. But what Steve is
saying is obviously there is a bias to
the labor market. That's how they are
acting, but that's not what they are
supposed to be doing. So he just is
asking for some clarity from the Fed.
>> Super focused on the long end of the
curve. We'll have more commentary on
that throughout this hour. 30-year bond
yields this morning at four basis
points. Coming up this hour, Dan Skellyy
of Morgan Stanley with stocks very close
to all-time highs. Henry Array of VA
partners with trade negotiations between
India and the United States underway and
the former Kansas City Fed President
Thomas Honig as investors prepare for
rate cuts. We start this morning. We
begin this hour with stocks inching
lower after Fed share JPAL opened the
door for rate cuts. Dan Skellyy of
Morgan Stanley writing, "Despite dovish
takeaways from Jackson Hole, we think a
more hawkish outcome for policy could
disrupt market expectations." Dan joins
us now for more. Dan, good morning.
>> Morning, John.
>> It's great to see you. Let's just build
on that quote there. What are you
expecting?
>> Listen, we've all year expected no rate
cuts. And so, notably, as as Amarie
mentioned, that data set of the last
couple weeks is starting to challenge
that, particularly on the labor front.
But having said that, I would just say
expectations are super elevated. We're
now 85% price for a Fed cut in
September. The rally since April has
been fundamentally biased with Mag 7 on
better earnings, but also when you look
at the junk cohort in terms of
cyclicals, higher beta, some of the
unprofitable tech, they've screamed
higher. And so I would argue that it's
beginning to look a little asymmetric.
If it's really priced and you get a rate
cut, does the market continue to rally
further? If the Fed doesn't cut, that
could also be disappointing.
>> Don't you think the Federal Reserve's
reaction function right now is also
asymmetric? If employment holds up, they
don't hike, but if it gets worse, they
do cut. Isn't that a good thing for
equities?
>> It could be, but John, again, the
valuations say at 22 and a half times
forward earnings on an earnings front
that we do not think are inflecting
higher still looks stretched. So, we
think a lot of that's already in the
price.
>> So, if they were to cut in September, do
you think he comes out and the
commentary is more hawkish? He
>> he definitely could. And I think the
reality is just going back to one of the
uh boogeymen that we've yet to see yet
the tariff related inflation data. We
have a unique advantage and I would say
perspective as advisers to wealth
managers in that we talked to a lot of
business owners and the business owners
that we to talk to right now on the
private client front are saying that
they are starting to put in pricing for
the first time this year and so we would
again argue that the inflation from
tariffs has not yet happened but it's on
the way.
>> How uneven is it? McDonald's last week
was talking about how they're cutting
some of their meal and making them more
of a better price point. At the same
time, PepsiCo is saying actually they're
hiking some of their carbonated drinks.
So, is it uneven? When do we finally get
almost you can call time when tariffs
have actually have been digested into
this economy?
>> Phenomenal question. And so, a couple
things historically if I go back to
Trump won 2018 2019 it took 6 to9 months
to see really the effects of tariffs and
some of the goods pricing. Number two,
um to your point, Emory, which is a
great point, it is really uneven across
a spectrum of different business models.
Let's face it, the MAG 7 35% of the
index plus financials 15%. My simple
math gets me to half the index doesn't
really have big P&L risk from tariffs.
But when I look at the S&P 493, the
market of everything else, there's a lot
of businesses in tech hardware, consumer
retail that have really yet started to
see that pain. And again, we would say
that's coming. If you look at the first
half of this year, it was really defined
by two things. First, a lot of countries
were negotiating with Trump. We think
the baseline expectations have really
started to narrow to a 10 to 15%
baseline tariff. So, all the countries
who were eating tariff costs earlier in
the year in their negotiation phase
don't have that incentive anymore to do
so. Number two, companies did this as
we've talked about massive pre-by. So, a
lot of companies were eating the tariff
costs as well. We think that phase has
also ended.
>> Dan, just extend that thinking just a
couple of steps further. If that's
ended, what are they going to do? Pass
it on to the consumer or cut cost
themselves, which causes a much bigger
employment problem? Here, a great point.
And here again, we talk about the
tension, right? The tension between
growth and inflation. And I think that's
a perfect manifestation of that
particular scenario. And so, John, the
best I could say is the survey work that
we have at the firm shows that about 30
to 40% of companies surveyed are talking
about pushing on price. Now, it's not
going to be a full pass through. It's
probably going to be a 70 to 80% pass
through, but even such, we haven't seen
any of that in the first half of the
year.
>> So, just talk to me about what kind of
levels of inflation you're expecting and
how sensitive you think the Fed will be
to it in the months and maybe year to
come. as the Fed indicated in in the POW
comments over the over the last couple
of days, they think inflation from goods
is very much going to be ad hoc and and
oneoff. Okay, having said that, I think
the bigger point that a lot of people
are not talking about is how much
services inflation firmed up in the last
couple of months as well. And lastly, we
have yet really to see the full impact
of the uh immigration uh and deportation
impact on wages. And so we think that's
also coming. So to answer your question,
John, it's probably a three three and a
half% inflation level over the next year
or so that is going in the wrong
direction from their goals.
>> But Powell was talking about the fact
that the tariff impact won't all happen
at the same time. So what does this mean
for the next 12 months?
>> So you know, we we also agree. So we
would say you're going to have this kind
of ramp up and we start to see elements
of that. It's probably the next two to
three months where that happens and then
starts to fade in the first half of next
year. But to John's point earlier,
what's the kind of second order effect
of that in terms of growth, right? We've
had this massive wave of consumer
spending for a long long time. We don't
expect that to continue into the
perpetual future next year. Um, and so
we would expect to see a little bit of a
growth slowdown in the beginning of next
year.
>> So next year, you think consumers
actually push back on higher prices?
>> Uh, well, you're seeing it already.
you're seeing it across different
business models and you alluded to this
earlier. If you're a big uh US
multinational with scale and pricing
power, you may you may be able to put
through some pricing, right? If if
however you're in an area that has
structural challenges, you mentioned a
consumer staple company earlier and
maybe you're losing market share and you
really don't have many other options but
to hike prices, you may have to elect to
do that. Um but we're just seeing this
massive bifurcation. Amarie and you you
noted this earlier. Even huge companies
like Amazon and Walmart are having very
different pricing um uh scenarios and
pricing approaches to how they're
dealing with tariffs. And so it really
is more of an idiosyncratic bottomup
type analysis.
>> So can you describe your approach to
equities given that backdrop?
>> Absolutely John and candidly I've been
saying to sell above 6,000. So, I've
been early on that call slash wrong so
far is how I'd probably redefine that,
but not not too far off. But I would say
aside from that market level commentary,
the sector and the thematic calls have
worked well. So, we continue to like
financials. We continue to like parts of
the AI infrastructure across
industrials, electrical, parts of energy
infrastructure that's done very well.
And lastly, one call that we think on a
little bit more defensive perspective uh
which is healthcare. We think healthc
care today trading at the second
percentile in terms of its historical
valuation is at or past the point of
maximum policy fear and is starting to
look more attractive.
>> Can I pick up on the first one? Banks.
Why do banks work given everything
you've described?
>> So it's interesting. We've seen
positioning in banks really change over
the last several months. People have
actually been better sellers of banks.
So I would say positioning today is not
really that full on the institutional
front. Uh but number one, we we are
playing a steeper curve, which we have
been for the better part of six to 12
months, which has worked well. Number
two, we think that you're going to
continue to see at these levels of
market um uh excitement and sentiment,
capital markets recovery, which
certainly ramped up in the second uh
quarter and is continuing into the third
quarter across ECM and M&A. And lastly,
deregulation. Right? This is an area of
the market that should benefit really
well from deregulation tailwinds.
steeper curves seeing them this morning
that leakage on the 30-year not just
state side but we've said this
continuously worldwide can we finish
there what is happening at the long end
of the curve how unanchored has that
story become from the debate at the
front end of the curve just what is
going on there
>> yeah so look we would just say that and
we've continued to position this way
we're more nervous about the long end uh
term premiums John as you know have
creeped up over the last year or so uh
we still have to fund the the big
beautiful bill so there's going to be
more uh issuance out there. We talked a
minute ago about rising inflation
expectations across goods and services.
Um and then just lastly, globally,
right, we've already started to see
people position away from long uh long
bonds in US treasuries. And so it's
interesting that the demand for US
stocks, namely MAG 7 and some of our
unique technology assets has continued
really strongly, but it's not the same
story for the bond market.
>> I keep going back to this. It's the UK,
it's Japan, it's the United States. How
problematic is it? And do you see it and
we keep going back to this question too.
Do you see it as a replay of what we saw
at the end of last year? Is this somehow
different or the same?
>> I think the thing that's different is
the market has more clarity and
certainty that there is flexibility amid
the White House, right? Like April 1st,
April 2nd, we didn't know that. April
10th, we did know that. And so I would
argue that there was some fear that this
was an administration that was willing
to hold its reigns on the policy the
extreme policy pronouncements very um
you know kind of not thinking about the
market impacts and now we know more
about that.
>> What's the corrective course to a
30-year 490? What do they do? The bill's
been published. It's passed the one big
beautiful bill. How do they correct
course?
>> I'm not sure how they correct course. I
think at this point you have to bet on
the fact that we're going to grow our
way out of some of these debt issues.
And if you double down on some of our
industrial competitive advantages with
technology as we're seemingly doing is
you deregulate, hopefully those are the
tailwinds to help the growth algorithm
grow your way out of the debt.
>> Well, you raise enough money through
tariffs. S&P Global Ratings last week
coming out with a bit of an endorsement
for the amount of money that was being
raised.
>> Well, exactly. They continuously say the
reason why we can afford this bill is
because we obviously don't want American
taxpayers their tax bills to go up, but
it's the tariff money coming in. Also,
what else are they doing? They're asking
Nvidia and AMD to give them 15% of their
profits of chips going to China. And
what did they say? That's to bring down
the deficit. Scott Besson said it right
here on this program.
>> Fascinating moment for financial markets
worldwide. Dan, it's good to see you,
sir.
>> Thanks for breaking down your thinking.
Dan Skellyy there of Morgan Stanley
Wealth Management. Bond yields this
morning higher by three basis points at
a very long end of the curve about 491
so far this Monday morning. That's the
price action. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vice President JD Vance
says Russia appears to be softening its
stance as American sanctions against
Russia remain on the table. This is the
Trump administration attempts to broker
an end to the Russian war in Ukraine.
Elsewhere, Starbucks is cutting
production at five of its US coffee
plants. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the plants that roast and
package coffee will now operate 5 days a
week instead of seven. The company is
cutting costs in some areas to pay for
upgrades elsewhere. And finally, K-pop
Demon Hunters topped the North American
box office. According to Verati, the
film is projected to gross $18 to 20
million over the weekend. It's a rare
win at theaters for Netflix, which
released the musical as a one weekend
only singalong event, which sounds like
absolute hell to me. Unless you like
K-pop.
>> Unless you like K-pop.
>> Blackpink. I like I like some K-pop.
>> So, you'd enjoy a sing along at the
movies?
>> I think I'd go see this.
>> Okay. All right. Good for you. Okay. Up
next on the program, continuing trade
negotiations.
>> What is the net impact on the American
Americans
because of our trade within you? They
have higher tariffs, higher non-tariff
barriers. We run a massive trade deficit
with them. So, that hurts American
workers. A conversation up next with
Henred Trees of Vader Partners live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Some changes on the Federal
Reserve. Deutsche Bank now looking for a
cut in September. BMP Parabar. Likewise,
this from Bank of America. We see a risk
that the Fed could make a policy error
by cutting just as activity rebounds
with inflation headed to 3%. The latest
from Adich and the team. If you are just
joining us, welcome. Equities at the
moment just about negative by 210 of 1%
on the S&P. on the NASDAQ down by 0.3 in
the bond market. Yields higher across
the curve up three on 30s 490 on a
30-year bond yield so far this morning.
That's the price action under
surveillance this morning. Continuing
trade negotiations.
What is the net impact on the America
Americans
because of our trade within you? They
have higher tariffs, higher non-tariff
barriers. We run a massive trade deficit
with them. So that hurts American
workers, hurts American businesses. Then
they use the money that they get from us
when they sell us stuff to buy Russian
oil. That's insane. Here's the latest
this morning. India's ambassador to
Russia saying it will continue to buy
oil wherever it gets the best deal
following President Trump's threatened
penalties for buying Russian crude. The
statement comes days before President
Trump's 50% tariffs on India take effect
on Wednesday. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
>> Yeah, hey, John. Good morning. Well, at
this point, we haven't gotten any sort
of indications from the White House that
they're going to let up on that 50%
tariff threat as it appears that India
is digging in its heels. And we know
that that discount on Russian oil does
help India secure energy supplies and
keep domestic prices low, which are
important to its growth. which is why
our analysts at Bloomberg Economics say
that when New Delhi does the riskreward
calculation here, there's no guarantee
that the White House would give in any
sort of trade concession. So, at this
point, they're going to keep importing
those Russian energy supplies to both uh
maintain its autonomy, but also to
balance alliances here, which is
something that we know India has been
doing since uh the beginning of the
Trump administration at this point. Also
important to point out though, John,
that India has said that they're being
unfairly singled out when it comes to
these so-called secondary tariffs. We
could point to how China, for example,
is the top importer of Russian crude.
Though, if you ask White House
officials, they'll tell you that those
negotiations are of course on a totally
separate track. So, at this point,
they're not going to make that same sort
of so-called secondary tariff threat.
But you'll recall that this really is
quite the reversal for India. This is a
country that had long been prioritized
in these trade talks, made concessions
early and often was our understanding.
But it does appear that there has been
an impass particularly when it comes to
US agricultural products and that
stalled these trade talks well before
President Trump ultimately made that
secondary tariff threat of now raising
these tariffs to 50% come Wednesday.
John, I'll just quickly add that we did
have some new reporting out from
Bloomberg News this morning that India's
embassy in Washington has hired a top
lobbying firm with close connections to
this White House in a bid to try to
advance these talks. And we did see
perhaps some indication of progress over
the weekend by the fact that President
Trump did nominate a US ambassador to
India. That position has been vacant
since the Trump administration took
office.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you down in Washington DC. Let's
build on this. Henrietta Trace of Federa
Partners writing sectoral tariffs will
continue to rise and expand likely
through the remainder of President
Trump's second term in office. Henrietta
joins us now for more. Henrieta, good
morning and welcome to New York City.
>> Thank you. Happy to be here.
>> Hey, it's good to see you. Set us up for
the rest of the week. What are you
looking for?
>> Uh, well, I'm looking for the US Open.
My little brother is a coach and he's
playing tomorrow, so I'm very excited.
Very excited. Um, but otherwise, this is
a really critical week. the plaintiffs
in the case about AIPA and the
president's authority to maintain all of
these tariffs, whether it's the
secondary tariffs on India or any of the
others that he's put on is up for debate
and uh potentially get a ruling from the
court of appeals this week. So, lots of
really exciting stuff to watch there.
>> The entire tariff strategy is tethered
to using AIPA. So, if this gets struck
down, where does that leave the policy?
Well, what I've been advising clients is
to say, watch and see if the president
starts launching new section 232 and 301
investigations because those are not
being challenged by the courts in any
kind of comprehensive way. So, the
biggest sign of an indication that the
Department of Justice is fearful that
they're going to lose this case is if
they start launching new investigations.
And what happened last week, we got two
of them, one on wind turbines and
another on furniture. That is every
indication to me that we're about to see
more tumults in the tariff space than we
did in the first half of the year, which
is a lot to say, I admit. So instead of
going country by country, it goes after
industry in different sectors. But how
long does a 232 or 301 investigation
actually take?
>> That's a great question. So ordinarily
you have 270 days to conduct the
investigation. You get another 90 days
to give your recommendation to the
president. He has 15 days yada yada. But
what's happened in the last couple of
months is that he's started to truncate
that schedule. So the copper
investigation, for example, took 40,
sorry, four months from start to finish.
And this latest furnitureures
investigation is going to take 50 days.
So there's no comfort that anybody
should take in, hey, this could be a
year-long thing. It could also be one
and a half months.
>> We have two tariff deadlines this week.
We have India with 50% and also the
dimminimous loophole ends on Friday.
What are you looking for?
>> Well, I think first and foremost, this
should be an indication, especially to
the Fed, that tariffs are not a
oneanddone event. They are constantly
rotating. We've done this dimminimous
thing what, three times this year. Um
now we're getting right and now we're
getting the um India tariffs are
secondary tariffs that go on top of the
25% they've already gotten in the last
month on top of the 10% we got at the
beginning of this year. This is a
constantly rotating stream and if I gets
disrupted then we're you know bar the
door we're going to get tariffs on every
sector and we still have them coming on
pharma and semis and critical minerals
and all the rest.
>> Walmart talked about this last week
tariff costs are gone up every single
week. Yeah.
>> And potentially for the foreseeable
future
>> and it's hard to really paint the
picture and as a company figure out
what's going to happen next if something
like to Henrietta's point AIPA gets
struck down in the courts and they have
to go through all this again but find a
different way to go about it.
>> Well, you mentioned companies. Apple is
the one that's of interest to me right
now shifting some production to India to
produce iPhones for consumption all
around the world. What does Tim Cook
know that we don't about what's going to
happen with tariffs on India? I I mean I
don't know that there is any great
information except for maybe is a better
opportunity than China. I I think if you
had to compare the two, the China
tariffs are already under section 301.
The second that AIPA gets struck down,
the president can just swiftly migrate
those over to 301. So those are ready to
go. With India, I have all year expected
a section 301 investigation into India
wholesale. And I suspect that if AIPA
gets struck down, that will come next.
>> What draws your attention to India
specifically?
um a lot of an understanding of the
president's first term with India. They
stripped them of GSP immediately. There
are a number of issues and a lot of
support from senators in Capitol Hill
from both sides of the aisle on
everything from, you know, their
critical minerals that go in and
chemicals that go into pharmaceutical
goods to their call centers. So, it's
almost like the scale of how much of
India is a problem on different um
segments, H-1B visas, you can really go
on. Um and I think that's what poses a
significant threat from India
specifically. We've seen both political
parties court India to use to bolster
against China,
>> right?
>> Where does that leave that policy?
>> Well, I think that this administration
is constantly shifting things around and
they're not willing to say, "Hey, come
join us. We want to join up against
China." I think that was a Biden era
strategy. I don't see it right now. Um,
certainly not. And I think India is just
getting more and more.
>> But it was a Trump one policy.
>> It was a Trump one policy, but they
weren't as aggressive with tariffs then.
Now they're going wholesale. We need
what are we up to three and a half
trillion dollars worth of tariff
revenue. I mean
>> it's different.
>> It's a lot of money. Let's put it that
way. Do you want to give little bro a
shout out before tomorrow?
>> Hey Bo,
>> who's his player?
>> Brandon Holtz.
>> Very cool.
>> And they are playing tomorrow afternoon
and we'll all be there.
>> Great. Really exciting.
>> Best of luck. Give us an update. Thank
you very much. It's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Head of trace
there. Vader partners. Not here for us.
Slightly offended. Here for the US Open.
>> That's exciting. I mean, I think I think
playing tennis has to be incredibly
stressful, but imagine being the coach.
I think that's almost worse
>> that you get stressful watching. I I get
super stressed. I'm so stressed out. Are
you good? That's good. When I have a
tennis player that I'm back and I get
super stressed out.
>> I know this cuz I've been to the US Open
with you. This is why you've now in your
older age have have switched to golf.
>> I've mellowed.
>> I'm just sort of like pushing all the
sports that get me stressed out to one
side. Football, tennis. Okay. Up next on
the program, we'll catch up with the
former Kansas City Fed President Thomas
Honiking. Plus, we'll touch base with
Danny to get your morning movers.
Verance system surging on news it may be
acquired. That stock is up by 12.6%.
from New York. This is Bloomberg
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures negative by 0.2%
on the S&P. Snapshot of the price action
looks like this so far this morning.
Down by about a third on the NASDAQ 100,
the main event for the NASDAQ a few days
away. earnings from Nvidia to round out
earnings season. Turn to the bond
market. 2-year, 10 year, 30 year. The
2-year got lots of attention on Friday
as chairman Pal left the door wide open
for a rate reduction in September. Still
just around 370 on twos. Yields up a
single basis point. The focus at the
moment, no drama yet, but this is the
focus I think for a lot of you in fixed
income. What the 30-year does here up
three basis points this morning. 490.
The spread between twos and 30s got to
about 120 121 earlier on this morning.
Trading about 118 119 at the moment. But
that curve was steeper Friday. Yields up
by let's say six basis points steeper.
Twos versus 30s on Friday and up another
basis point or so so far this morning.
The distance between the two getting a
little bit wider. Steepest curve going
back to early 2022. That's the price
action. Two hours away from the opening
bow. Let's get you some equities. Some
morning movers with Danny Ber. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Starting our Monday morning
off with a little bit of coffee news.
Cure egg Dr. Pepper will be buying the
Amsterdam listed JDE Pete, continuing a
string of mergers and consolidation in
the beverage industry. Now, as part of
this, once it's complete, Kurig and Dr.
Pepper will separate again between their
coffee and their other beverage
business, undoing what happened 7 years
ago when the two merged together. The
choir often falling with these types of
deals and the complicatedness of it.
Those shares down 4.5%. Now, also after
the bell on Friday, we learned that the
US government would indeed be buying a
stake in Intel just under 10%. President
Trump talking about that, touting Intel
shares on of the company are moving
higher by 1.6%. Intel saying that it's a
passive stake that they won't have any
voting or governance rights of the
company. Bernstein pointing out though,
yes, it needs money, but it also needs
customers. Now, finally, another take
private likely going to happen. Another
one I should also say from Tom Bravo
after that massive dayforce one last
week. Today sources telling Bloomberg
that they are looking at Baron Systems
to take this company, this B2B software
company private. Shares are up 12% and
it would value them at about $2 billion.
John,
>> Danny, thanks for the update. More from
Danny in the next hour. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
meeting with the South Korean president
at the White House later today. High on
the agenda, South Korea's $350 billion
US investment and a trade deal that
includes 15% tariffs on imports to the
US.
>> So obviously they'll be talking about
the latest trade deal that they signed
this economic opportunity, but really I
think security is going to be in focus
now that trade is behind them. South
Korea really wants to make sure they are
diffusing this tension with North Korea
and they're going to want to make sure
Washington is lining up with them. And
at the same time, the president has made
it very clear they want to see South
Korea spending more when it comes to
defense. I believe they're at 3.5%. He
wants to see them come up to 5% because
we have 28,000 troops stationed in South
Korea. South Korea pays about a billion
dollars. The president has already said
he wants to see that going to say $5
billion. So I think security is going to
be really in focus today when these two
leaders meet.
>> But just a note on these investment
deals, do we know with any real clarity
detail how these are going to work?
Well, we have the topline figures, but
when it comes to what is going on with
all of these trade deals that the
president has spoken about and these
deals that were technically signed, the
teams are still working through them.
And we have the team still working
through South Korea. We have this team
still working through what's going on in
Japan, what's going through the European
Union, what's going through Canada,
Mexico, India coming up on Wednesday.
And all of this to Henrietta's point may
be struck down in the courts because
they are using AIPA as the legal
authority to go about this tariff
policy.
>> You mentioned India. Let's talk about
India. Tyler mentioned this story a
little bit earlier this morning that
India's embassy in Washington is hiring
a lobbying firm with ties to President
Trump as the Wednesday deadline for 50%
tariffs looms. The levies are punishment
for New Delhi's continued purchases of
Russian crude. So I think when you go
out and you get that fancy lobbying firm
that has close ties to this
administration, you're basically
admitting that you are not further
enough along that you wanted to see.
India was supposed to be one of the
first ones out of the gate to strike
this deal. Now they are having a lot of
problems with this administration. We
have seen Peter Navaro and the Financial
Times verbally to the press talk about
the fact that a lot of this has to do
with the fact that they are buying
Russian crude. It makes it different
from China because China was always
buying Russian crude. It was this
opportunistic moment that they said
India has been able to go after when it
comes to cheap Russian crude refining it
and then sending off to the rest of the
world. I'm focused on geopolitically.
What basically we have seen over the
past few weeks is India have top Chinese
official come Modi is going to be
meeting with Xi Jinping and we've seen
them actually at least in rhetoric and
maybe with some deals go towards more of
these bricks countries as they're having
this feud with the United States.
>> Wouldn't it be more effective to point
to the Europeans and how much Russian
energy the Europeans are still buying?
They are still buying although I mean
Christine Lagard over the weekend was
talking about the fact that they had had
to diversify they were forced to but
when they are diversifying it's not just
from the United States LNG which the
president talked about in his first
administration he wanted to see you know
freedom molecules more of them going to
to Europe Europe's actually buying the
refined crude from Russia that India is
refining and sending it back so it is
one kind of silly cycle
>> super messy very serious but super messy
over the last few years or so a top
story Worldwide for financial markets of
course is chairman pal tinga rate cuts
in September and maybe beyond. Traders
now seeing an 84% chance of a cut next
month after pal signal that the central
bank may ease before inflation fully
returns to target. Want to stay on top
of the Federal Reserve. Joining us now
is the former Kansas City Fed President
Thomas Honiking. Thomas, welcome back to
the program. Sir, you I'm sure read over
that speech as well as listened to it
from Chairman Powell on Friday. What was
your major takeaway?
Well, I would say that he has opened the
door for a rate cut in September. Um,
he's still referring to the policy rate
right now as restrictive. That may be
debated, but the fact is that's what
he's saying. Uh, there's increasing
concern about uh employment,
especially with the with the uh changes
in immigration and so forth, that
they're focusing now on uh the
possibility that the unemployment rate.
Now, if it went up, if people began to
be laid off, the unemployment rate would
go higher. Uh, that has them nervous.
So, that's why I think he opened it up.
>> Thomas, just unemployment. Could you
give us your impression of how things
are developing? The chairman called it
curious, and it is curious what's
happening here. We've had a step down in
both supply and demand. How much weight
should you put on one versus the other?
>> Well, I think they I think he's got a
point. And I think part of the reason at
the conference that they had the
conference was about labor. And one of
the things that's going on uh is not
just this immigration policy, but the
fact that the demographics globally are
changing. We're having a slowdown in uh
fertility rates. Uh that is changing the
market. And in talking to some of the
labor economists at that conference,
they're saying that, you know, the real
uh increase on a monthly rate if it were
to be 40 or 50,000, that wouldn't
necessarily be a particularly bad
outcome given the changes in the
dynamics in that labor market. So, it's
a yes, it is curious, but it's also
reflecting real change going on globally
in the structural uh uh uh population
trends going forward from here. The last
labor labor report and revisions were
not great and that's clearly why you're
seeing the Fed chair open up this door
to September, but they continuously
missed their inflation target. Why is
the bias to the labor market?
>> Well, that's my question as well because
inflation's 3% in my opinion at least.
Uh, and that's that's well above the 2%
target and well above price stability.
So I was I was a little taken back by
the fact that he emphasized the
employment side when we have this
dynamic going on in employment and
ignoring I think not ignoring but
downplaying the the very I think
significant inflation and referring to
policy is as modestly restrictive when
in fact there's an argument uh that the
real rates at 1 and a half% are fairly u
neutral at least. Well, Thomas, then
that led me to my next question, which
is was the chairman's speech political?
>> Well, uh, every everyone thinks not. I
wouldn't know. Only only he would know
inside. But I mean, there's a strong
support of the fact that he's staying
independent. Uh, that he he made very
clear they're going to keep price
stability as a as a important goal. Uh
but I think um it does raise questions
in people's minds of course and and
that's the circumstances we're in number
one and number two the bias in his
speech uh that gave people a little bit
of a setback. So we all we'll just have
to wait and see how it plays out.
>> Jonathan and I were talking earlier in
the program how basically this is Chris
Waller's view of the world. It was
almost like Governor Waller wrote this
speech. Do you think this is actually
how Powell feels or do you think that he
is forming consensus amongst his
colleagues?
>> Well, there's probably a combination of
that. Um, I think he is trying to build
consensus. We we clearly know that there
is different views within the committee
not seen for quite some time. So, he
needs to build consensus. But I I still
would think that in those circumstances
even uh he would he would want to play
it more neutral in his speech. But I
think there is a lot of pressure coming
from both uh Chris Waller and Mickey
Bowman on that and he has to he's aware
of that. So he's he's has to walk this
tight rope as you will as he goes as he
approaches September. And I think I
think he'll be looking very carefully
and I think other members of the
committee will be looking very carefully
at the at the inflation numbers that
that come out next and watching the
employment numbers very carefully
because that that will I think tip it
one way or the other if they are out of
line with expectations.
>> So at the end of the day Thomas once
again is this just a Fed that's data
dependent? We have PCE this Friday one
more jobs report and obviously one more
CPI report before they meet.
>> Right. It's it's it's it's data
dependent number one and there is look
at let's face it there's an enormous
amount of pressure on the Fed from the
administration right now that cannot be
ignored in fact even the presidents are
are be are you know talking about being
put at risk right now because their
reappointments come up next year if you
do get a a takeover of the board how
will that play out so there's an
enormous amount of pressure on the Fed
right now that cannot be ignored and I
think the I think the public has to be
aware of that and certainly policy
policy makers have to be aware of that
right now.
>> Thomas, are you yourself worried about
Fed independence?
>> I am. I think uh we haven't seen
pressure like this since Johnson and
Nixon. Uh it's it's very significant. Um
and and it's more it's more direct. It's
more public. Uh it uh puts the Fed in
play in a lot of ways both on the market
and in the public's eyes. So yeah, I'm
I'm very worried about it to be honest
with you. Yes. Hey Tom, you're not the
only one. Not the only one over in
Jackson Hole. That was for sure. The
former Kansas City Fed President Thomas
Honik there on the Federal Reserve
Chairman Pal. And just a final note on
central bank independence.
>> And what's interesting there is he said
we haven't seen this since the Nixon
times. But what happened during Nixon
and Arthur Burns was of course the fact
that this was all happening Jonathan
under the table almost this is overt
which almost in itself the public then
realizes that this is what the White
House wants as an outcome. And in that
sense, at least it there's more
transparency because you actually see
some of the pressuring and the job
boning that's happening on the Fed.
>> I understand the concern and I
understand where it's coming from. I
just say at the moment, just look at the
names that are being lined up to replace
some of the individuals on the Federal
Reserve. Look at the list to become the
next Fed chair. That is a list filled
with very credible candidates. Now
whether you think that's just there to
massage the optics of the situation and
they're going to go with someone else
who's less credible, I don't know. But I
can only take the list for what it is
right now. And the list of those names
is highly credible.
>> It's incredibly credible and also it is
bipartisan. It is diverse in thought
when it comes to individuals that were
maybe appointed by the Biden
administration and individuals that were
appointed by Trump when he was first in
power and under Trump 1.0. And then you
come down to it and you think what the
what Wall Street really thinks who it's
going to be is someone like Christopher
Waller who seems to not only been
winning the argument on Wall Street, but
he seems to be winning the argument in
the room based off of J. Pal's speech on
Friday.
>> That's the latest on the Federal
Reserve. If you are just joining us,
welcome to the program. The latest on
the market down just a little bit. No
drama here. We're negative by about a
quarter of 1% on the S&P 500. That's the
price action. Here's an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. President Trump taking
game at NBC and ABC, saying they are
quote the worst and most biased networks
in history, adding that he would support
the FCC in revoking their licenses.
Elsewhere, thousands of homes in
Northern California and Oregon are under
evacuation orders and warnings as the
picket fire burned through over 6,800
acres. The blaze is only about 11%
contained according to Cal Fire. And
finally, Chinese Taipei wins the Little
League World Series for the first time
since 1996. They beat out the team from
Nevada 7 nothing in Williamsport,
Pennsylvania yesterday. Chinese Taipe's
pitcher dominated, giving up one hit in
five innings. Very cool. Up next on the
program, opening the door to rate cuts.
>> With policy in restrictive territory,
the baseline outlook and the shifting
balance of risks may warrant adjusting
our policy stance.
>> That conversation up next with Robert
Tip of Pump live from New York City.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
the last week of August. Where did that
go? Equity futures on the S&P 500
negative by 0.2%. 2% on the NASDAQ.
We're down by 0.3 under surveillance
this morning, opening the door to rate
cuts.
>> The stability of the unemployment rate
and other labor market measures allows
us to proceed carefully as we consider
changes to our policy stance.
Nonetheless, with policy in restrictive
territory, the baseline outlook and the
shifting balance of risks may warrant
adjusting our policy stance.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Bond
yields plunging on Friday after Fed
chair JP Pal signaled a possible rate
cut in September, ending an eight-month
pause. Robert Tipper Pim writing, "The
attention to the growth side of the
Fed's equation is also a welcome
development, suggesting the Fed is
attuned to downside economic risk."
Robert joins us now for more. Robert,
welcome to the program, sir. Let's just
reflect on what we heard from Chairman
Pal. What is he setting us up for going
into year end?
I think he set us up for doing whatever
the data told him to do. You know, he
opened up to rate cuts with one
sentence.
You know, before that sentence, he was
talking about inflation and the uh the
concerns on the inflation side, which
are very real, frankly. uh and uh you
know he got it wrong on the data and he
really pounded the t the table at his
last pre press conference about how
decent the labor market was and they
weren't cutting and then he got you know
3 months worth of bad data in one go on
that Friday so he opened the door to the
rate cuts if they get another
ratification of the weak data he's
opened the door they can cut rates he
can work with his committee um but he
bought time and he bought the ability to
act independent ly because the Fed is
not independent. They have to be very
careful.
>> Robert, he also redefined what weak data
actually was. We'll get to central bank
independence in a moment. I want to sit
on the labor market. Last time around in
the news conference, he talked about the
labor market being solid and anchored
that view around the unemployment rate
almost that data point alone. And now
he's looking at a simultaneous step down
in the supply side of the labor market
and the demand side and putting more
weight on one versus the other. And I'm
just wondering, Robert, where you think
that's come from?
>> Yeah. You know, I think that that data
is incredibly light in terms of of
sampling. I'm I'm not a statistician.
I'm not an economist, but it's not that
many households. It's not that many
businesses. Uh, and so you need a couple
years before that data begins to settle
down with all the revisions. And so if
you add, subtract, and god forbid start
dividing those numbers and getting
unemployment rates, you have a
tremendous amount of risk in
interpreting those. So you know, uh, you
know, I think the economy is doing
reasonably well, but to his point, when
you get downward revisions, they tend to
have positive serial correlation. You
tend to keep seeing them. Uh, some
research says, you know, that doesn't
correlate with recessions. Some shows
that it does. And uh I think you and I
know that often with recessions, you
look back, they say, "Oh, yeah, 6 months
ago, we were actually in the recession.
We didn't know it." He's feeling that
risk. So, he's adjusting. Uh nobody
knows what to look at in terms of the
data. Um but I I think that's why he's
he's struggling and everybody's
grappling with that information
>> after this speech. Is he setting up the
market to pay more attention though to
the labor market report that comes out?
I think the market always thought the
labor market was more important and in
fact if you just look at the COVID
experience as long as they were
concerned about the labor market they
weren't hiking interest rates until they
were absolutely sure yeah labor market's
probably okay and wow inflation is way
way way too high. So this is a Fed that
has been trained. This is the third Fed
of the United States. And um you know
the uh the most public uh strongest
opposition to Fed independence was
probably right in in the 50s before
their independence with uh Truman. Um
you know Humphrey Hawkins after a very
brief recession in ' 69. In the 70s they
wrote this uh you know dual mandate
which actually has more parts to it.
It's a very employmentheavy mandate. So,
uh I think that the markets already
realize the Fed would lean on that
because the Fed's independence can be
shaken by Congress and the board itself
can be attacked as well.
>> You said earlier the Fed is not
independent. Do you mean because their
mandate is back to someplace and that's
Congress? That's the lawmakers.
>> Not only is it made by the lawmakers, uh
they set the targets. Uh but this is a
president that can legislate
effectively. I mean we saw this with the
budget uh where he pushed something
through that touched entitlements in
fast, you know, uh lightning speed and
bent the budget rules, right? And and
maybe I'm not saying whether this is
right or wrong. I'm just trying to
adjust to reality here. What's possible
in this environment? These uh people
that are voting on the rates are under
tremendous pressure. they can come under
attack from the Justice Department. Um,
but at its very fundamental, you know,
basis, the Fed's mandate is set by
Congress, Federal Reserve Act, Humphrey
Hawkins, it can be changed at any time.
Uh, so I thought he was very artful. It
wasn't like 2018 or a little bit earlier
in this cycle where he fought on the
interest rates, laid out the situation,
you know, said things are falling out on
the size of side of ease here. And
that's the best way to remain maintain
the ability to act independently is to
not fight it. Go with the data. Do the
right thing. Yeah. In the eyes of the
current zeitgeist.
>> Well, Robert, let's talk about what the
White House ultimately wants. And it's
not just about lower interest rates at
the Federal Reserve. It's lower
borrowing costs and lower mortgage
rates. Robert, if they drop rates of the
FOMC, are they going to get lower
borrowing costs and lower mortgage
rates? Well, they have a lot of tools. I
left out actually the uh the shadow
chairman of the Fed uh running the
Treasury. Um you know, they're pulling
in the issuance towards bills. They're
buying back bonds, right? So, they can
uh and they've signaled they're not
interested in issuing more long-term
securities, they're interested in
issuing more T bills. So, if they can
get a lower short-term interest rate,
rightly or wrongly, and issue more
bills, you're not going to have a a
runaway cost of issuance, you know, over
the next three and a half years.
>> Are you as an investor less concerned
then about what happens at the longer
end of the curve?
Uh I think that if yes I think that if
they uh in fact you know run policy that
that's reasonable which I think they
will as you pointed out there's there's
a wide range of uh of people that are
you know going to be appointed have to
be confirmed for appointed and all of
that uh you're going to get a reasonable
outcome in the back end of the curve. I
don't think you're going to get a drop
in long-term rates but you know what you
haven't gotten a drop in long-term
rates. We got to four and a quarter
basically three years ago and we're
still at four and a quarter. We've been
plus minus. You're going to get a lot of
variability in the data, but you will
get lower short-term rates. This is very
positive for markets. You know, in terms
of
um corporations, they can deal with a
little bit higher inflation. With the
tariffs, we're going to get a little bit
higher inflation. Um but the Fed and and
the market overall is not going to
demand higher real rates across the curb
because private sector economy can't pay
it. Uh and that's that's what you're
seeing. I think that's why you had you
know excess reserves piling up is
because nobody wants that money at that
rate and that will kind of cap private
sector yields. Treasury yields will push
up against that a bit. But overall
that's an environment where higher
yielding fixed income product continues
to outperform. We've seen
>> yield gonna get away from us. Yeah,
>> Robert Tip, appreciate your time, sir,
as always. Robert Tip there, PGM. Fixed
income, bond yields this morning higher
by just two basis points on tens. 10's
around 430, 30s around 490 at the very
long end of the curve. Y by three basis
points. What did he call the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson there? The shadow
Fed chair.
>> Shadow Fed chair. Yeah. Which is
something actually that came from the
Treasury Secretary. I think it was on
this program before the election. He was
talking about this is an idea you can
have. And what did he say? pieces. It
actually doesn't want that anymore. He
doesn't think it's a good idea.
>> He's backed away from that. Neil Dun of
Remax saying that he's already on the
Federal Reserve and his name is Governor
Waller. And based on a speech on Friday
from the chairman of the Federal
Reserve, it sounded a lot like to your
point sounded a lot like Governor
Waller. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Liz Thomas of Sofi, Matt
Bryson of Wed Bush, Veronica Clark of
City, Colin Martin of Charles Swab. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
just around the corner.
[Music]
The Fed just has a lot less influence on
the direction of things than they've had
in the past.
>> We want the Fed to react before we see a
big problem.
>> Does feel as if the balance of risk is
pretty balanced at this point.
>> It's clearly long-term rates that drive
the bus here. Even if they cut in
September, it's then not going to
necessarily be a slam dunk that there'll
be a December cut.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now, and your scores look like
this. Easing into the trading week,
we're negative by 0.24%
on the S&P 500, down by about a third of
1% on the Nasdaq 100. In the bond
market, 2-year, 10 year, 30-year
unwinding some of Friday's moves. Yields
up across the curve here by two to three
basis points. The 30-year back to about
490 91. As we look away, look ahead to
the week ahead. Things are shaping up as
follows. PCE on Friday. Nvidia results
on Wednesday. The main event for this
equity market worldwide.
>> Absolutely. Semiconductors going to be
in focus, Jonathan. I mean a lot of
people you've seen Wall Street analyst
after Wall Street analyst continue to
increase their price target on this
name. 40% of their revenue coming from
the likes of Microsoft and Meta and
Apple and Amazon which what did they do
this earning season? They boosted their
capital expenditures. There is a lot of
money going into AI but what do we
continuously hear the likes of Frank
Lee? It's all going to be about China
and the rhetoric around China and what
Jensen Wang says in terms of them
shoring up their business in Beijing.
>> That comes on Wednesday. big
conversation about them and that
exposure to China. Big conversation
later in the week about inflation. The
very fact of the matter is we're getting
closer and closer to 3% all over again
and we might stay there for a while and
the Federal Reserve chair has set us up
to ignore some of this, focus on
employment and cut interest rates.
>> They say that you have these dual this
dual mandate and there's risks to both
sides of this dual mandate which is why
you're in this curious conundrum when it
comes to the Federal Reserve. But they
have not been able to bring inflation to
target for months. They have failed on
that mandate. Yet they get one whiff in
the in the labor market that there's
potentially concern to the downside. And
already we see the bias from this Fed
chair to open the door for September,
which is why some people I'm talking to
are saying a little bit of this could be
political cover.
>> Keep going back to the calendar.
September 5th for payrolls. A week
later, inflation. A week after that, the
17th, the main event, the Federal
Reserve, that meeting and a ton of
forecasts. In financial markets at the
moment, equities a bit softer, bond
yields a bit higher. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Liz Thomas of
SoFi with stocks close to all-time
highs. Matt Bryson of Wed Bush's Nvidia
earnings take center stage, and Veronica
Clark of City as investors prepare for a
September rate cut. We begin this out
with stocks close to record highs. Liz
Thomas of Zofi writing, "It would take a
lot to not get a cut in September. The
Fed is more focused on labor in the near
term, but over the next few meetings, I
suspect the focus will shift to
inflation. Liz joins us now for more.
Liz, welcome. Let's build on some of
that. The shift back to inflation.
What's going to bring that about?
>> Well, when you think about where we are
right now, first of all, the message
that we received from the Fed on Friday
was that the labor market had cooled.
There's this average of 35,000 jobs
added per month over the prior three
months, which is a number that at least
concerns them and they want to make sure
that they don't lose track of that. But
I think what will happen as time goes on
is us knowing and the realization in
markets that there's no room to hike
rates. There's a little bit of room for
the labor market to cool before the Fed
and before really the economy is going
to look like it's in a lot of pain.
We've got an unemployment rate still at
4.2% and the expectation as of now is
that it'll stay at 4.2%. So there's a
little bit of room there for the labor
market still to cool off. There's
definitely not room to go back and have
to hike rates if we lose control of
inflation. But the other message that I
think was very clear from the Fed on
Friday was that yes, we expect some
effect from tariffs on inflation, but
we're not going to see it immediately.
and we're not sure if it's going to be
just a one-time thing or if it's going
to take a little bit longer. So, that's
why I say over the next few meetings, I
think the the focus will shift back to
inflation as some of that data comes
through and if they can get confirmation
that tariffs were just a one-time shock.
>> Liz, do you still see it though in the
same way the market saw it on Friday
that the chairman's current reaction
function, the policy bias is a pro-risk
one?
Well, on Friday, what happened, I think,
that surprised markets was that he
pretty much confirmed as long as things
continue in this fashion, we're getting
a cut in September. He didn't say that
explicitly, but that was the
interpretation.
The other thing that happened on Friday
that I think is a little bit lost in the
huge rally is that before that speech
occurred, markets had gotten down to
less than 70% chance of a cut. So, a lot
of that was just repricing back up to I
believe it hit a high on Friday of maybe
90 91% 93% chance of a cut. So, the
ricing from 65ish%
back up to the low 90%
was a lot of that rally. So, just sort
of a a rejiggering of of our
expectations again. Is this a sentiment
shift to back to risk on? It was risk on
already. I think where we're at now is
we're back to having priced in this
first cut and really wondering does that
mean that there's another one to come?
Is this the beginning of a cutting
cycle? And how aggressive will this
cutting cycle be? I still think that the
jobs data next Friday is going to decide
for sure whether or not we're getting
that first cut. If it comes in at
expectations, even slightly weak, that
cut will be all but baked in. We're
we're actually below 90% chance right
now, but that cut would get all but
baked in. Maybe even another sniff of 50
basis points, which I don't think is
likely. But in the near term, yes, this
is positive for risk assets. At some
point, if this is the beginning of a
cutting cycle and if it starts to be in
response to weak data, the market will
have to digest the fact that okay, the
economy is now cooling quite a bit. We
were cutting because we could. Now we're
cutting because we're trying to prevent
further weakness.
>> If this is the start of a cutting cycle
though, how could it be when the
chairman himself said the tariff effects
will be accumulating over coming months
with high uncertainty about timing and
amounts?
>> Well, that's what I think the market's
going to have to figure out. Right now,
we're acting as if it is the beginning
of a cutting cycle, and this is going to
be a slow message to keep going down
further and further as the year goes on.
and we're pricing in a little bit more
than two cuts right now before the end
of the year. If you look at the time
period when it might take tariffs to
actually work their way into the data,
and when I say the data, we've already
seen some effective tariffs in PPI data.
We're looking for it in consumer price
data, so CPI and PCE. And it'll take a
little bit longer to get there because
if the companies are not passing it
through on the PPI side, on the
wholesale side, it's going to take a
little while to see that in the consumer
side to the end result. So, usually,
let's say it takes four to 6 months for
that to actually work its way all the
way through the system. The Fed knows
that. So they're buying themselves some
time to say, "Okay, let's watch and see
what happens over the next few months of
inflation reports on the consumer side
before we signal anything, promise
anything to markets that this is going
to be a slow cutting cycle that will
continue."
>> Liz, what are you looking for in terms
of the data we have yet to see when it
comes to the August payrolls and CPI
report that could maybe make Jay Powell
walk back this idea of a cut in
September?
Well, one of the things that I had been
saying even before Jackson Hole was
we're getting really excited about a cut
in September when we've got a lot of
data still to come. So, we know that the
CPI and the PPI data was a little
conflicting. CPI came in okay, if not
slightly weak. PPI came in really hot.
So, there is already some conflicting
message coming from the data. We've got
another CPI report. We've got the jobs
report obviously which everybody will be
watching with baited breath. We've got a
PCE report. So, there's still a lot to
come. If some of those come in hot,
especially hot, then I think we're going
to see a lot more uncertainty before
that meeting. But I do believe that it
would have to be a series of hot data.
So, it wouldn't just be a one-time pop
in CPI, a one-time pop in PCE, because
they've already messaged to us that that
might happen anyway. So I think unless
this jobs report comes in really really
hot, I think we're getting that cut.
>> The jobs report is what I want to talk
about. Liz, the prospect of an activity
rebound. Can we just get into that a
little bit more? I've seen that from
Bank of America on Friday. Heard Missouo
talk about it too. Jordan Rochester said
it's hard to get too doubbish if US
growth momentum from PMIs is real. Liz,
how do you think about the prospect of a
growth rebound as we work our way
through September into year end?
Well, I think that's part of what the
market is counting on with this
broadening out trade that it's started
to do over the last couple weeks. You're
seeing some strength out of smaller cap
names. You're seeing strength out of
other sectors besides communications and
tech and even outside of industrials,
which has been one of the top sectors
this year. So, the broadening out trade
is enthusiasm that we will have some
sort of growth rebound, activity rebound
that's durable and can reach into other
parts of the economy. I think it's
possible, but it's too early to say,
okay, this is a growth rebound that's
going to look like early parts of a
cycle because if we're just embarking on
a cutting cycle again during this
period, we have to really wait for
confirmation of some of that activity.
And the reality is that the data had
been moving in the opposite direction
coming into this. Hadn't been moving in
a terrible direction, but things were
cooling off. GDP was cooling off a
little bit. the labor market has really
been stagnant in a in a solid place.
Stagnant in a in a place of strength,
but stagnant for a long time. So there
would it would take some uh really
exciting news or or some shift in
economic developments to I think broaden
out the growth in a durable way right
now.
>> Liz, it's good to hear from you. Always
is. Thanks for sharing your thoughts.
Liz Thomas there of SoFi, I think we all
hope that we do get an activity rebound
just for the good of this economy and
the good of the country. The problem is
we've had this low churn dynamic grip
this labor market now for quite a while
and there's been this worry that it
would start to break one way or the
other and a risk that it's broken in the
wrong way
>> and does that change how individuals may
be on the Fed that were feeling a little
bit more dovish are going to feel going
into that September meeting also
Jonathan what happened to the fact that
the president through cold water on the
BLS their collection the statistitians
what if we get a very good non-farm
payrolls number is the president going
to look at that and say look we're
getting job growth back in America or
he's going to They no actually don't
touch the number, trust the numbers.
That's what I said last month.
>> We'll look for confirmation from ADP.
ADP taking on some additional importance
over the next few weeks. Let's give you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. We
can kick things off with the ECB
president Christine Lagard warning
against political interference in
central banking. She said if monetary
policy independence is undermined,
quote, it becomes dysfunctional and
starts doing things that it shouldn't
do. Elsewhere, Kurig Dr. Pepper has
agreed to buy Dutch coffee and tea
company JDP for $18 billion. Once the
company the deal is completed, Kurig
plans to split the coffee business from
other beverage operations. The
announcement coming only a few years
after the two combined. And finally,
after 163 events and zero wins, British
golfer Tommy Fleetwood got his first PGA
Tour victory at the FedEx Cup. He tapped
in a part for par on the 18th hole to
win the championship at 18 under.
Fleetwood taking home a $10 million
prize. Once again, congratulations to
Tommy. Up next, the morning calls. Plus,
Matt Bryson of Wedbush lifting his
Nvidia price target going into earnings
on Wednesday. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
I think going into the print, um the
fundamentals, the long-term story is
still very solid. This week's earnings,
a lot's going to be on whether they can
actually surprise the market, especially
the China piece. I think that has um you
know, there's a lot of uncertainty in
China. The China government now is
actually reassessing whether or not the
putting pressure on the Chinese
customers perhaps hold off on on buying
the Nvidia chips.
>> That was Frankly of HSBC looking ahead
to numbers from Nvidia. Those numbers
drop in later on this week on Wednesday.
If you're just tuning in, welcome to the
program. Equity futures negative by a
third of 1% on the S&P 500, down by
4/10en on the NASDAQ. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Bank of America cutting
American Eagle to underperform, saying
navigating tariffs will be tough for the
company. The stock is down by 4%. Your
second call from Morgan Stanby lowering
its price target on BJs to 115,
expecting tariffs and consumer sentiment
to weigh down second half gross margins.
And finally, Steve raising its price
target on Nvidia to 212, believing its
leadership in AI infrastructure remains
unchallenged. Those numbers two days
away. Let's stick with Nvidia. Investors
hoping the chip giant can soothe fears
about AI spending stock. Little change
this morning. Wild ride over the past
few weeks. Mandep Singh of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more.
Mandep, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Wild ride over the past few weeks on
what's been developing over in China.
So, what do you expect to hear in two
days time?
>> Well, so the buy side bogey for the next
quarter is obviously higher. they have
derised the China revenue but for me the
key commentary is around the reasoning
models and how it's driving up the
compute demand we know that reasoning
models use more compute so that's a
driver everyone called out how they were
short of GPUs in the past 90 days but
look when it comes to the long-term uh
sustainability of growth it comes down
to what the sovereigns are doing what
China exposure is because uh half of
Nvidia's revenues from hypers scalers.
The other half the growth sustainability
hinges on sovereigns and China. So we
know China is not ready to buy H20s
anymore. What happens to the sovereigns
given the geopolitical situation we are
in right now?
>> How do they manage the China situation?
Just breathe some life into that
conversation. Clearly the Chinese are
offended by the fact the commerce
secretary Howard Lond based on reports
turned around to them and said you're
not going to get our highest tech. So
they said okay we're not buying the H20
either. How's this going to resolve
itself? Well, so look, I mean H20s was
as a skew that they were trying to sell.
It was lower ASPs. To my mind, street is
focused on Nvidia's margins as well. So
if the margins continue to go down, they
said in the second half margins will go
back to mid70%. that is where uh you
know there will be increased concern
about EPS growth and just the
sustainability of EPS growth because
margins is what has uh drove the you
know investors to underwrite a 40 times
earnings multiple. So from that
perspective, China is very important
because that's the incremental demand
and if they're not even able to sell
H20s, it just tells you they will face
more ASP pressure because you take out,
you know, uh the biggest large language
model companies that are training their
large language models on uh chips that
are not Nvidius.
>> Mandy, stay with us. I want to bring in
Matt Bryson of Wedbush raised his price
target on Nvidia to 210 going into
earnings on Wednesday. Matt Bryson joins
us now for more. Matt, welcome to the
program, sir. Let's talk about what
you're expecting on Wednesday and the
margin risk that Mande was just talking
about.
>> Yeah. So on Wednesday, I I think that
Nvidia gives us certainly better numbers
than they gotten to. uh we've only
gotten good news during the quarter in
terms of both how they've executed uh
but then CSP spend uh also how Blackwell
Ultra is ramping and and so typically
management has given themselves a little
bit of wiggle room um and so would
expect another beat uh in terms of
margins going forward or margins during
the quarter um again with execution
looking better um I don't see a whole
lot of risk to margins in the quarter I
think the question going forward was If
the if Nvidia has to pay this this
export tax, um what might the impact be
on gross margins to product going to
China? Uh if that China revenue is
lower, if anything, in my mind, that
that moderates the risk around gross
margins.
>> Matt, when you say export tax, you're
talking about the 15% of the profit they
would get from selling these chips into
China only. But if Beijing's not buying
the chips, they're not paying that tax.
How much is your price target and your
lifting of the price target relying on
them still being able to sell into
China?
>> Yeah, so if you look at my model, um I
added uh roughly a million I mean a
billion billion and a half to revenue in
uh their fiscal Q3 fiscal Q4 uh versus
remember in fiscal Q2 they were doing 8
billion to China. So I have a relatively
modest increase in revenue. I I still
expect that they are able to ship some
H20s into China. Um far more
conservative though in terms of what I'm
expecting versus what they had been
shipping previously.
>> How concerned are you about the fact
that there's reports that Nvidia is
telling its component suppliers to stop
making production for the components
that are going into the H20s because
they're not going to have the buyer
Beijing when it comes to these chips.
remember Nvidia had uh a relatively
abrupt notice back in April when they
had to stop shipping. Um they wrote off
a bunch of inventory. Uh some of that
was working in process, some of that was
finished inventory. Uh I I believe that
one of the things that that Nvidia has
been trying to figure out and the
variables have obviously been changing
is how much additional inventory do they
really need to produce uh or how many
how many additional chips and boards
they need to produce uh before they
start shifting to newer models. So there
there's been a lot of news out recently
around them having blackwell variants of
those China chips. Um and I so so I
think part what Nvidia is adjusting is
how much additional production how much
additional inventory do they build given
they already have this this inventory in
house and they've got a new model that's
coming out in let's call it the next 6
to9 months.
>> Matt let's turn to in turn to Intel
another company that falls under your
coverage. Last time I looked you had a
neutral rating on the stock. Have things
changed for you since Friday?
>> No, not not really. Right. the the well
the US government told us that instead
of them giving Intel grants uh to build
up factories, they're going to give them
grants uh to to get a portion of Intel.
Um so Intel has, you know, ostensibly
the the the same access to capital that
they had previously that the difference
in my mind being that shareholders are
diluted and now you have a US government
that's saying it will be a passive
investor unless it's not a passive
investor. Um as far as I could read the
language.
>> Well, Matt, can I get into that? What's
passive about this White House? How
active do you think they're going to be?
>> I I don't know. Um, that's that's that's
a great question. So, does this lead us
down a path where the the government uh
takes steps to advantage Intel versus
other competitors? Um, in part because
of the stake that I don't know. um do
they allow um Intel to potentially spin
out the foundry business which or fab
business which would be a way for Intel
to create value for shareholders. Um
there there was language um around them
having an option granted uh if Intel
owned less than I think it was 50% of
the the fab business at some point. So
maybe that that means that a a breakup
could be could be on the table. Uh, but
the answer really is I I I've I've been
surprised again and again over the last
six months and I expect to be surprised
over the next six months.
>> Matt, do you think given this stake that
Intel is going to operate what's best
for the company and shareholders or it's
going to do the bidding of politicians
in Washington?
Um I I think to some extent the the two
are somewhat the same in the sense that
I I think what shareholders need is they
need Intel to have a better product um
and to to regain share uh to regain
margins to regain profitability. Uh I I
I think for Washington they want Intel
to have a successful fab um and in that
sense you know that their goals are
aligned right the the US wants a stabled
solid producer of semiconductors uh and
particularly advanced semiconductors
that's what Intel needs to be to create
profits for shareholders
>> for America's national security is what
we need Matt Bryson of Wbush thank you
sir appreciate your time Mandep I want
to come back to you it's a gut punch for
capitalism according to a lot of Is it a
good thing for Intel?
>> I mean, I equate it to the situation
where there were two big to fail banks
back in 2008. The government bailed them
out and even in the last two years, you
know, the affiliation that Tesla had
with President Trump was a positive for
the stocks. So, from that perspective, I
do think, you know, near-term it does
sound like a positive given the uh
government wants to save the company.
They want to save the foundry business
and I wouldn't be surprised if they end
Intel ends up winning some orders from
fabulous chip makers uh for some sort of
uh
>> wouldn't surprise me either. Would not
surprise me either. Whether they can
actually build the stuff that those
fabulous companies actually want built
is another thing alto together. Do you
think they can?
>> It won't be cutting edge but you know
Intel is still the leader when it comes
to CPU chips. So granted they won't be
building the cutting edge GPUs, the two
nanometer GPUs that TSMC is building,
but still there's a lot of semiconductor
business because of this data center and
AI wave that is out there. And I think
even if Intel wins a small sliver of
that, that'll be positive.
>> This is going to be quite a ride over
the next few years.
>> I like how Mandep says he wouldn't be
surprised. I don't think anyone would be
surprised what the next step of this
story is. And Mandep's talking about if
Intel's able to win some business when
is it going to actually be winning
business because of their technology or
are they going to be dictated other
companies be dictated that they need to
buy their product?
>> I keep asking the same question. Their
revenue in China, what's it running at?
30% of their revenues coming from China
for Intel waiting for the Chinese
response to this. The US government
taking a stake in a supplier of
technology to Chinese companies. I think
the US though will just laugh in
Beijing's face because this is exactly
what they do.
>> I'm sure they will. But if the shoe was
on the other foot, you know exactly what
would be happening here.
>> Absolutely.
>> You know, and this is what we've got to
watch to see how this plays out in
Washington DC and beyond in Beijing. Up
next on the program, Veronica Clark City
as we await key inflation data later
this week. Plus, your morning movers,
Wayfair shares falling on reports of
possible tariffs on furniture.
[Music]
on Friday snapped a 5-day slide on the
S&P 500 with the biggest daily gain
going back to May. Equity futures this
morning and good morning to you.
Negative by a third of 1% on the S&P
down just 0.4 on the Nasdaq 100 as we
count you down to earnings from Nvidia
just 2 days away. 1 hour away from the
up and bow. Let's get you some morning
moves and cross over to Danny Burger for
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. The big deal to keep track of
today and that is Kurig Dr. Pepper
announcing that it would be buying GD
JDE Pets rather the coffee chain listed
in Amsterdam. That deal once completed
it would also see Kurig and Dr. Pepper
split into its coffee company and its
other beverage company. After seven
years when these two first merge the
acquire often falls in these types of
deals. So Curig Dr. Pepper down about 7%
with JDE surging in the Amsterdam trade.
Intel, that's also higher. You all were
discussing this before the commercial
break. The US government taking just
under a 10% stake in the company,
funding the $ 8.9 billion through the
chips act. Intel saying that it would be
a passive stake by the US government.
Even so, those shares up 1.7% this
morning. Finally, also after the bell on
Friday, Trump announced that the US
would be investigating imports of
furniture coming into the US for 50
days. And after that 50 days, they would
look at a tariff rate. So pushing
forward to sectoral tariffs. So
companies like Wayfair, William Sonoma,
some of those other furniture makers
falling in today's pre-market trade.
Those shares, John, down 7 12%.
>> Danny, thank you. So is this a stimulus
bill for furniture sales over the next
few months? You're going to frontload
that, too?
>> Potentially. Yeah. I mean, if you think
that there are going to be higher
tariffs on furniture and you're thinking
about redoing your home or if you're one
of these companies, you're going to want
to start stockpiling.
>> It is never ending. I keep going back to
the Walmart numbers from last week when
the CEO came out and said tariff costs
are rising every single week. They're
going to keep on rising.
>> Absolutely. And what did we hear from
Henrietta Trace? If you see AIPA being
struck down, this means by a sector
basis, the administration is going to
have to do 232 or 301 investigations.
That means every sector is going to get
one of these investigations.
>> Inflation in focus this week. Core PCE
the key data point to watch. The Fed's
preferred measure of inflation due out
on Friday. Ira Jersey of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more. Ira,
welcome to the program, buddy. What are
you looking for later this week? Are we
seriously going to have a 3% inflation
print in America and a Federal Reserve
come out, cut rates, and signal there's
more to come?
>> Well, I think if we get a 3%, which is
not the uh the consensus forecast, then
then the Federal Reserve would have to
rethink a September rate cut. But if we
if we get the year-on-year number around
two and a half percent, so maybe
slightly below what the consensus is,
then I think that does open the door for
the Federal Reserve to cut. And yeah,
you know, the Fed doesn't like to be one
and done or just, you know, cut a little
bit and then pause and wait. There tends
to be some policy momentum. So I think
the Federal Reserve needs to be
convinced that they need to start and
then once they start, they'll cut
interest rates 100 or to 150 basis
points. Um, and so you need a weaker
than expected number probably to ensure
that the Fed is going to uh cut in
September.
>> I just want to lean on the language from
Chairman Pal directly in his speech and
I'll read it verbatim. The effects of
tariffs on consumer prices are now
clearly visible. He goes on to say, "A
reasonable base case is that the effects
will be relatively short-lived. A
one-time shift in the price level. Of
course, one time does not mean all at
once." That last line, Ira, I think is
so important. Isn't that a chairman
basically setting us up to ignore
inflation for several months and maybe
even longer into 2026?
Well, that's certainly the the way that
the market took that kind of language on
uh on on Friday. Um and also the the the
lack of shift toward an inflation bias
in the policy framework, which I think
was very important. There were a lot of
people who thought, oh, the Fed is going
to lean more toward worrying about
inflation instead of employment. And
when they didn't do that, that's one of
the reasons you you saw that uh pretty
significant rally, particularly in the
front end of the yield curve on Friday.
Um I I don't think that the market's
going to look through it, but I think
that the market is not going to be as
worried about the goods inflation, but
look at and focus on the services sector
and not only the housing sector, but the
core services sector that is very
domestically focused and are these goods
um uh price increases really affecting
consumer behavior um and maybe slowing
uh price growth in services and maybe
slowing consumer spending because
remember we get that PC data, we also
get the personal income and spend
spending data. So that will be in at
least in my estimation as important as
the inflation only data.
>> Ira, just before you go, I just want to
talk about developments in the yield
curve. Clearly the curve steepened on
Friday, but the whole curve dropped
lower. Had a bit of steepness come back
through the curve this morning, but
yields are pushing higher. That 30-year
move yields up about three or four basis
points this morning. Ira, just how
disconnected and unanchored is the long
end from this story, this conversation
we're having about the front end? Well,
it's it's not completely and I I you
know, we've been thinking that the long
end was going to stay uh basically in
the range where it's been recently and
and the front end was going to do all
the work in the curve where we get this
bull steepening of the yield curve where
the front end rallies, the long end does
a whole lot of nothing because people
are worried about the fiscal situation
and the potential for higher long run
inflation if the Federal Reserve in fact
does cut interest rates very
aggressively.
>> Arri of Bloomberg Intelligence. Harris,
thank you. 30-year bond yield higher by
let's call it three basis points 491
right now. Let's stick with inflation
and the path forward for the Federal
Reserve. Veronica Clark of City writing
the worst case scenario for tariff
related inflation has been avoided. The
biggest test of tariff pass through
dynamics will likely be data from August
through October. Veronica joins us now
for more. Veronica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You noticed the same line on inflation
is transitory back at the Federal
Reserve. that word specifically?
Probably not. But yeah, this is a Fed
that's setting up to look through maybe
multiple months of some stronger
inflation data. Um, obviously it's going
to depend on the details. You do we see
services inflation slowing? Um, our
inflation expectations anchored. But
yeah, that was a pretty doubbish comment
from Jer Powell.
>> If they're saying look through it, then
basically the market is only going to be
focused on what the labor market.
>> I think that's the most important. Um,
and and there definitely, you know, can
be some stronger inflation scenarios.
Um, we don't know exactly how this will
all play out. Um, but I do think it's
probably the case that, you know, demand
is soft enough. So, you're not really
getting these big price increases all at
once. Um, this could be somewhat drawn
out and that comes down to the demand
backdrop, which is the labor market. Um,
if the labor market is slowing, that's
what they're going to be more much more
focused on.
>> Based off all of this in PAL's speech on
Friday, is the Fed basically accepting
that they'll never hit a 2% inflation
target again, at least in the
foreseeable future?
>> Yeah, I I I don't think so. Um I mean I
think at some point you know if we
really are sticky at something like 3%
that they won't be comfortable with
that. Um but we will have you know this
multiple month period of of some
stronger data. Um but it won't
necessarily be the true persistent kind
of inflation that would get them
concerned and then maybe a year or so
from now we're we're back towards 2%.
>> I find the analysis of the labor market
slightly more controversial. This was an
individual that sat at the news
conference a number of weeks ago.
Predates NFP sure. But think about what
he said at the news conference. Labour
market solid anchored the view around
the unemployment rate
>> few days later. What did unemployment
do? Not a lot compared to the massive
negative revisions we saw in payrolls.
Now
>> I'll spell out basically what he told us
on Friday and you can give me your
analysis of things. Essentially the
chairman is saying that yes, we've had a
step down in supply and a step down in
demand which has kept the unemployment
rate pretty stable given everything
that's been going on. But I'm going to
put more weight on the step down in
demand. Now that's your camp. I
understand that. But surely for the
Federal Reserve, shouldn't they be
focused on measures of slack? Shouldn't
they be able to sit there and say, "Yes,
demand seen a step down, but measures of
slack have remained stable. So, we're
going to remain on guard for inflation."
>> Yeah, I think if we don't see the
unemployment rate moving higher, yeah,
it will be hard maybe to get certainly
bigger, you know, cuts all at once.
We're not expecting 50s. Um, but I think
the issue, and Powell did still talk
about, you know, the labor market this
way in July, um, is, yeah, why is demand
weakening? What's going to stop that? If
rates are restrictive, rates are
probably not where they should be then.
>> That's a fair comment. Just how
restrictive are we then?
>> I think they I think rates are
restrictive. Um you know, obviously we
look at the long run dot, you know, like
markets where pricing, you know, that
five five more cuts or so. Um but I
think if you look at something like
housing, that's a really good example of
you don't even necessarily need rates to
go higher. You just leave them at
restrictive levels and you've gotten
that contraction. Again,
>> John's bringing been bringing up the
point though when the Fed cut last year,
it actually didn't help the housing
market because mortgage rates actually
went up. Yeah. How concerned you this is
going to happen this time around?
>> Yeah, I I I don't think we're really
concerned that, you know, 10-year yields
are going to go too much higher if the
Fed is is really cutting. Um you we saw
that on Friday. A dovish chair means
means 10ear rates lower, too.
>> You also said we don't expect 50s,
meaning do you expect a cycle of cuts?
>> Yeah, we we do. I think it is harder to
get those big cuts, you know, at this
stage. Um, at least starting with that.
You know, obviously rates were at a
higher level last year. You weren't as
concerned on the inflation side of
things. Um, but I think this is a Fed
that's going to proceed with a series of
cuts. So,
>> what are you expecting for 2026? And is
there a dividing line between what
happens before May and what happens
after May?
>> Yeah, I I we are still expecting that
this is going to be a Fed that is data
dependent. Obviously, they have to, you
know, majority vote to, you know, have a
policy reached. Um, we still think it's
it's a consecutive five.
>> A consecutive five. So, you don't think
a whole lot changes when we get that new
fetch chair?
>> I don't think necessarily. Yeah. Well,
>> where does that thinking come from?
>> I I mean, there is obviously a lot of a
lot of pressure on them. Um, but I think
it depends obviously on on who the chair
will be. If it is someone like Governor
Waller, you know, market's very familiar
with him. Um, we know exactly how he how
he thinks.
>> Governor Waller would be a super
comfortable choice for Wall Street, I
think, at this point.
>> Absolutely. He's someone that Wall
Street really admires and backs at this
moment. Even if they don't agree with
his view, they think he's credible and
he thinks they think he can represent an
independent Fed and not someone that's
just doing White House bidding like
maybe the president's own NEC director.
>> Can we just finish on the balance sheet?
What do you think the approach of the
new Fed chair will be to the balance
sheet?
>> Yeah, it's really not gotten a lot of
attention. Um, it is it could be
interesting if it's someone like
Governor Waller. He's been a bit more
hawkish on the balance sheet, allowing
it to run off for for longer. Um, but I
I imagine for now it's just as is.
>> I've picked up on the same dynamic. I've
been very surprised sat here that there
hasn't been more attention on the
balance sheet. If you listen to what the
White House wants, it's not just lower
rates, it's lower borrowing costs, it's
lower mortgage rates,
>> which begs the question, if you're not
going to get it through a just
short-term rate, do you have to get it
through other means?
>> Right. Right. Um, there's really not a
lot of talk about that right now. Um,
but they are very focused on on cuts,
especially because they are issuing so
much in the short end. And so that
really does depend on what the Fed rate
itself is doing. Um obviously for
consumers, you know, 10-year mortgage
rates, all the all of that matters more.
Um but for now, if it's, you know,
federal borrowing costs, that depends on
what the Fed's doing in terms of
>> silly. Appreciate it. That duration is
getting shorter and shorter and shorter,
and you imagine it might get a whole lot
shorter.
>> Absolutely. And also though to
Veronica's point, just think about the
politics of all this going into the
fall. If city is expecting some hotter
prints to come in because tariff rates
we're going to see that pass through now
potentially with companies at the same
time the Fed potentially they think is
going to be on a cycle of cutting. How
political does that think that they're
only looking at the employment even
though we're getting hotter CPI prints
that's going to be challenging.
>> Bond yields this morning high up by
three basis points across the curve up
three on twos to about 373 on 30s on my
screen on the Bloomberg at the moment.
Up three also and back through 490.
That's the price action. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide. Here is
your Bloomberg brief. President Donald
Trump taking game at NBC and ABC saying
they are quote the worst and most biased
networks in history, adding that he
would support the FCC in revoking their
licenses. Elsewhere, the American Civil
Liberties Union saying the Florida
Detention Center known as Alligator
Alcarazz Alcatraz is being run illegally
by state workers who are holding
immigrants off the grid. The ACLU is
suing a group of agencies involved in
operating the facility. And finally,
K-pop Demon Hunters topped the North
American box office. According to
Variety, the film is projected to gross
18 to 20 million over the weekend. It's
a rare win at theaters for Netflix after
it released the musical as a one weekend
only singalong event.
>> You're looking at me cuz you think I'm
going.
>> No, I just have no interest in this
whatsoever.
>> I thought it was cool. It might come up
today at the White House given you have
the South Korean president
>> singing at the movies that I'm just not
into at all. Like people no like the
singalong stuff. What was that with the
ABBA movie? What was that? Mama Mia and
people started singing along to that
stuff.
>> No interest at all. All right, up next
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus
we'll catch up with Colin Martin and
Schwab as investors price in a September
rate cut from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
There's an enormous amount of pressure
on the Fed right now that cannot not be
ignored. We haven't seen pressure like
this since Johnson and Nixon. Uh it's
it's very significant. Um and and it's
more it's more direct. It's more public.
Uh it uh puts the Fed in play in a lot
of ways both on the market and in
public's eyes. So yeah, I'm I'm very
worried about it.
>> That was the former Kansas City Fed
President Thomas Heik there on central
bank independence. I have to say I
prefer it public and direct than private
and behind closed doors.
>> Yeah. Well, this was the idea around
President Nixon, Arthur Burns. They
would have these meetings together, but
no one knew how overt really Nixon was
and direct he was to Arthur Burns and
what he wanted to see. This is very
transparent. We can all read and see
what the president is saying about the
Federal Reserve every single day.
>> We know exactly what we're getting. Bond
yields are higher this morning by two or
three basis points across the curve.
Equities are lower by 0.3% on the S&P
500. Down by about a third also on the
NASDAQ 100. As we count you down to the
opening bell, here's the trading diary
today. Fed speak from New York President
John Williams. Look out for that. The
New York Fed President later on this
evening. That's one to watch. As we look
ahead to tomorrow, durable goods orders.
Wednesday, the big one for earnings
results from Nvidia. Thursday, another
round of jobless claims, plus a read on
GDP. And on Friday, core PCE and um
consumer sentiment for whatever that's
worth at the moment, which feels like a
political poll, a survey,
>> right? Remember what Governor Waller
said? He said, "Oh, yeah, that thing.
That's that that's sentiment." Yeah,
>> it's how it's been treated. That thing.
Let's stick with that thing. Inflation.
The stock rally retreating this morning
as investors eye a September rate
decision. Colin Martin of Schwab
writing, "A soft labor market is in the
driver's seat when it comes to monetary
policy expectations, but inflation
concerns haven't dissipated." Colin
joins us now for more. Colin, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you. What changed for you
after Friday?
>> Not too much. we were already pricing in
a September rate cut. I mean, that's
there's all these headlines and and the
markets go haywire about everything he
says and doesn't say. If we go back to
June, you know, a majority of the FOMC
participants were already expecting
this. If we go back a few weeks ago, we
were expecting a rate cut and probably a
second one in December. It seems more
likely now. Um, I'd say Powell stopped
short of confirmation like what we got
in 2024. In fact, when he said, you
know, this is happening. Uh, but but the
doors clearly open. He mentioned that,
you know, we know that he thinks
monetary policy is restrictive. Seems
like the doors open to kind of ease it a
little bit, but but in the grand scheme
of things, I don't think much has
changed because I think the Fed will
continue to be data dependent going
forward.
>> There appears to be a reaction shift
though, and that's important with
regards to the debate data dependence.
There seems to be a decreased
sensitivity to inflation and maybe an
increased sensitivity to the labor
market. Is it fair there's been a buy
shift at the Federal Reserve?
>> I think so, but I think the data
supports that. We at at Schwab, we kind
of had the same shift as well leading up
to those, you know, pretty negative
revisions that we got a few weeks ago or
almost a month ago now. We thought the
labor market was was pretty stable with
maybe some negative things, some cracks
forming underneath the surface that kind
of pulled forward a lot more of those
cracks and maybe it wasn't as stable as
we expected. So, I think it's fair to
focus more on the labor market than
inflation. Yes, inflation is still above
the Fed's target. It's been above the
Fed's target for years. Yes, it's moving
away from the target, at least over the
past uh past few months, but we're not
sure it's going to necessarily
reacelerate from here. I think a lot of
that or some of that does come from
tariffs, but I I won't use the t-word,
but it might be a a one-time shift um
that the Fed might look through a little
bit. I think they're still worried that
we can see more price increases going
forward, but unless we keep getting
tariffs on tariffs on tariffs, that rate
of change um isn't going to be there in
perpetuity.
>> But what makes you so worried about a
4.2% unemployment rate?
>> Uh not much. That that's something that
that again our we have shifted our view
a little bit. I was looking at that
specifically as that sign of stability.
I've kind of lost count now because
we've we've shifted a little bit, but I
think it's between 4% and 4.2% 2% for 15
16 months, something like that. It's
remarkably stable. And even with those
negative revisions, it was still kind of
in that the top end of that range. I
think when you round it a little bit, it
it it ticks a little bit higher and was
more proof of the the lowfire low higher
environment.
>> So why are they cutting?
>> Because I think the thinking about
>> they're thinking about cutting. Haven't
done it just yet. I think there's just
things that are more concerning that the
trend can can worsen from here. It looks
like if that trend we got over the past
few months with non-harmed payrolls,
maybe the that 4.0 to 4.2% range for the
unemployment rate, maybe we get 43, 44,
four over time. And I think that's going
to be a little bit concerning for Fed
officials.
>> Unleashed a super speculative rally, not
just in equities, but in bonds, too. We
talked a lot about investment grade
credit spreads, multi-deade tides, high
yield spreads, 279 after Friday. How
much tighter can credit spreads go in
this country?
>> Well, well, not much. I mean, they can
go. I mean, I've been pretty cautious
about it for a while, but spreads have
stayed in this really tight range. And
if we look at that, we'll say 279 for
high yield, all-time low or cyclical
low, we'll call it post pandemic, we're
looking at around 2 and a.5%. So, just
kind of definitionally, maybe we see 20
or 30 basis points lower. I I'm
concerned though. We've been cautious
for a while.
>> What are you concerned about? I'm
concerned that I think we're seeing a
lot of dynamics with supply and demand,
people really reaching for yield, um,
stock market optimism, a lot of demand
in the private credit space. And I think
when we get all this demand moving into
an asset class, I think you lose price
discovery. And it can't it can't mask
things that are going on underneath the
surface forever. And we're seeing, I
mean, defaults are are still relatively
high. They've been hovering, depending
on Moody's or S&P, whichever data you
want to use, in the 3, four, 5% area for
for I think close to two years now. And
that's that's well above levels we saw
in 2021 when we saw spreads at these
lows.
>> Do you find it odd that the chairman
came out on Friday and said, "I'm
worried about demand. I'm not worried
about inflation so much because
actually, I'm worried more about what's
happening with demand." And then we saw
spreads grind tighter. Um, you know, I
think, yeah, the the Fed's view and then
the markets just getting optimistic
about the potential for rate cuts. We're
worried about demand also. If we look at
GDP, one of the things that we always
focus on is personal consumption. And
the first two quarters, I think on
average, if you put them together,
you're looking at around 1% or so
annualized. And if we look at the past
three years, is closer to 2 and a half%.
So, I think that that is something that
probably is concerning for Fed officials
and and we're concerned as well. And
that's why we have that sort of
defensive bias in terms of not taking
too much risk with your portfolio and
the idea that we think yields of all
maturities will pro probably fall a
little bit further.
>> Well, let's get into that that defensive
posture. Where do you want to be across
the yield curve? Where do you want to
sit? Where's comfortable at the moment?
>> We're comfortable intermediate term. Uh
we like you and everybody else
>> us and everybody else. Um but you know
there's risks on both end. I think on
the short end reinvestment risk is
clearly here and and if we look at where
you know a money market fund yield is
right now or a T- bill you know 4% plus
if market expectations are correct and
and who knows what we'll see over the
next 12 to 15 months we can see those
yields closer to 3% next year so we'd
rather lock in a little bit on the long
end though inflation's still high
fiscal concerns and the term premium is
relatively elevated and we're consider
we're worried that it can stay elevated
given all the trade trade uncertainty,
fiscal policy uncertainty, and the need
for higher yields to attract uh those
investors.
>> Do you see 4% on tens as almost the
floor? Then how are you thinking about
things? Even though you're going to see
this big drop off at the front end,
where's the 10ear sitting?
>> Yeah, maybe a little bit below four,
maybe in the 3 and 3/4% to 4% range. We
kind of give those ranges. If we look at
what's going to pull yields
significantly lower, uh we'd probably
need a recession for that. In a
recessionary environment, maybe 3 and a
half% or less. But if we just get a
moderation, which is kind of what we've
seen lately, we think maybe just below
4%, which means a steeper yield curve
and probably still attractive yields in
our
>> Would you expect issuance to tighten up
even more duration just to shorten
shorten shorten from the Treasury given
what you just described?
>> I I I think so. Um we we know what
Treasury wants to do. We know the
concerns that Treasury and the whole
administration has about the borrowing
costs here and we know what what they
can impact and if we do get uh you know
a lowering of interest rates because of
either the the mandate that suggest it
or more people on the committee that are
are demanding it maybe more vocally.
We'll probably see lower short-term
rates and we'll probably see the
Treasury continue uh to take advantage
of that.
>> Colin, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Colin Martin there of
Schwab. That dance between Treasury and
the Federal Reserve over the next year,
the one to watch without a doubt.
>> Absolutely. And the president has made
it pretty clear. He's like, if we're the
ones paying net interest payments bigger
than the defense budget, that those
rates should be lower as the US
government is paying off those bonds.
>> First day back after vacation. Feel
good?
>> Yeah. You know, it's a little sad. It's
last week of August.
>> I know. You got to take it in. Take it
slowly. You know, I don't wish away
summer. You know how a lot of people
here wish away summer after Labor Day.
It's sort of over. It's not over. You
got the whole of September.
>> Yeah, we should enjoy September.
>> Embrace September and the warm weather
that's still to come. Bremo's doing just
that. She's going to enjoy the final
week of August. She'll be back with us
next week. Conversation continues
tomorrow. Peter Cheer of Academy
Securities will join us. We'll catch up
with Marissa Adams of HSBC. We'll speak
to Jim Biano of Biano Research and the
wonderful, the brilliant toen of Apollo.
Stack lineup tomorrow. Looking forward
to catching up with you for this
morning. Bond yields bouncing back by
about two or three basis points across
the curve. Equity futures just a little
bit softer, negative by 0.3% from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]